It started one night when I was five, when I had been woken up by commotions in the house, I went back to sleep and didn't think much of it the next day. And the day after the next, my dad was not at home. I was told that he's on a business trip and I believed it.

Days later, my family finally told me the truth. My father was hospitalized from a brain hemorrhage, which paralyzed his left side. Had he been rushed to the hospital any later I would have lost my father after that. My parents already faltering relationship deteriorated even faster with my father being in the hospital.

My mother discussed divorce with my paternal grandparents. Whenever they visited my mother, I was quickly sent to my bedroom where her loud arguing, kicking a furniture and glasses breaking. I never saw my parents in the same room again, though. We never talked about it as a family, my father's illness and my parents divorced, negatively affected everyone.

My family. Nevertheless, we each try to contribute for the betterment of the family and try to reduce our pain, our own ways. I cannot speak for any one of them, but I would like to retell what they have told me, starting from my paternal grandmother. My grandmother came from the countryside to take care of my sick father and me.

Although she has lived her whole life in the countryside. She very quickly adapted to the lifestyle of the city every day, without fail. She went into the market to buy food out of which she made delicious meals. She helped my father with physical therapy. She walked me to piano lessons and she brought me to the park and washed over me as I played with the other children.

Despite being a competent and a strong person. She rarely smiled though. She was at home all the time with my father. She dared not to see a word to him out of fear of his temperament, which had worsened Judaist sickness. But when I was alone with her, she'd tell me that my mother left my father while he was sick.

She pointed to a family with both parents on a TV show and tell me that they have a normal, complete family. And I don't where she just looked into the distance and sigh, she said I was too little to understand. But I knew she was hurting. It hurt me too. Then my grandma who would cook for me and walk with me to the park hand in hand, was on the verge of tears.

She saw her son go from healthy to disabled and divorced and had no one to confide in. And she thought she couldn't do anything to help us, but she did help us. And she helped and she helped us a lot. And for that, I'm very thankful. My father's story. He pulled through the coma to be there for his daughter because of his disability.

He had to participate in physical therapy, which served as a constant reminder of his disabled body. Looking into the mirror, the left corner of his mouth duped because of his lack of control. He hated his disabled body and he hated his inability to move his arm and leg, regardless of how hard he tried.

Looking at the hospital window, he even had thoughts about ending it all. And when he was finally well enough to leave the hospital, there were even more hardships waiting for him later. He told me that the first time you cross the road, you froze out of anxiety in the middle of the road. He had no control over part of his body, including his left arm, the leg.

His arm was curled up, uh, naturally in front of his chest, due to his muscles in voluntarily contracting his left leg tensed up too, and became stiff so that his knee would not bend where he tried to walk the left side of his mouth drooped and torched making his nervousness for the world who see. I imagined him dragging his body with his other leg and walking stick to the other side of the road and stopping for a long while to catch his breath.

The idea of my father being so out of control and so out addicted T scares me as he was a man who prided himself in his intellect and composure. But he was a fighter and wouldn't give up there with the help of physical therapy. It took his first steps without crutches or walking stick with the help of counseling and the passing of time, he told himself to fight on.

And that there's a long life ahead of him that he has so much to look forward to and that his family would want him to recover too. It took my dad a long time to get to where he is now. And finally, he is now able to return to his job where he recently got a promotion, drive me home from the airport and walk to pretty much everywhere without a walking stick.

But I was not a good daughter during his recovery. When I first visited my dad, after his surgery, with his head bandaged and tubes running to his nose, I called him ugly. He later told me that throughout the entire time he was sick. This was the only time he had cried. Given the choice between having either my grandmother or my father walking me to piano lessons.

I had chosen my grandmother every time. I was scared of the judgment of people who treated my father's disability as frivolous gossip. I can never apologize to my father enough for what I have done, although I'm sure he had picked up on my discomfort regarding his disability. He was nevertheless, a good father.

He was strict yet loving. He scolded me quite a bit yet. He also taught me to be curious. He read stories to me and said, Of new to me every night, to which I fully realized its value, but was always too shy to say it back. However, he did have a lot to say about my mother. It told me that my mother never keeps her promise and that she's strong-willed and well, try to disregard my wishes and influence me.

He wanted me to be aware of her, moving on to my story. No one told me about the divorce. However, from my parents not being together and divorce papers, my mother made an effort to hide. I eventually figured it out. It hurt not having a complete family. The only way I knew was acceptable. It hurt being in the middle of the crossfires between the two sides of the family.

This tore me apart because it didn't want to choose, but what hurt me the most was seeing my father's illness and my parents divorced, beat up my loved ones. I wanted to everyone. I love to be happy and get along. I wish I could take the hurt from everyone, but that's not possible. So I tried in my own way to make it better.

When I went to elementary school, I lived with my dad and my paternal grandmother. I knew there were, so I worked the hardest I could in school so that my dad would be proud of me. Once I had a fever at school. Instead of coming home to rest. I pushed through when I came home, I tried to be as jumpy and happy as I could feel.

I was tired and wanted to sleep. I remember many gloomy evenings where I absentmindedly watched television. My dad looked at his phone and my grandmother literally sat on the sofa. Time felt slow. Then sometimes I try to make them laugh with slapstick. The only kind of humor I knew as an eight or nine year old, I sometimes got a genuine reaction, but usually they forced out a tart left.

A for effort. It was only right that I do my part to conserve whatever was left of our families. Harmony, despite how hard I tried it, we did not start talking to each other. We're bantering, like a normal family would because of that. I never felt at home at my father's house. I moved to live with my mother at 12.

There I was in a dilemma. I wanted my mother's attention and clown to her much more than a normal 12 year old would. I loved her, but I hated her too for leaving my father whom I also loved eventually when I got older, I heard my mother's story. She wanted to be a good mother, but she wasn't a good mother or so I thought.

The marriage was failing. The four, my dad got sick, but divorce was out of the question. It was my parents' goal to give me a complete, complete family or the illusion of it. After my father got sick for a short time, they appeared to have mended their relationship. The mother described their relationship as comrades in battle with their common goal.

Being to take care of my father until he could get out of the hospital. She diligently took care of him, but it couldn't last. It's normal for people to ask. What did it have to be? My family such as the case from my paternal grandmother. So she concluded it was my mother who made my father ill. She washed my mother's, every move, scolding her for the slide, his mistakes, and every day my father got angrier and less satisfied with my mother's care.

Anger and verbal abuse escalated into shouting, throwing and breaking things and eventually violence, which threatened my mother's life. At that point, she had to leave my father for the longest time. My mother thought she was a bad person for leaving my father. She carried the guilt of divorcing my father, even though she feared for her life.

I couldn't tell because she was always smiling when she saw me. It took her years to overcome the guilt and the trauma, despite why he and his mother had done. She has never once spoken ill of them. Well, we had this conversation. I told her that she's a good mother and a good person. I said, I love her.

And it's true. I do think she's a good mother and a good person. And I do love her. She cried my mother, rarely cries. I hated seeing her cry because she didn't deserve to think that she was a bad person in the first place. She's always concerned for the good of the other people, but she never does what's best for her.

I wish I hadn't been so little so I could be there for her so I could tell her too. I could tell that to her then. You tell us because of this conversation? Oh, I was able to better understand the full scope of my mother's commitment to helping our family and in our own ways, my family members and I have all fought for the betterment of ourselves and those whom we love.

Sometimes life can give you unfavorable situations. You might feel like your life is ruined. You might feel that the people you love will never be happy again, but like how plants can grow through concrete, people are naturally resilient and will always do their best for the betterment of their loved ones and to reduce their pain in their own ways.

To close my chapel talk, please. Thank yourself. And those who care about you for you are all trying your best to win the fight against the myriad situations life throws at you. Thank you.

those of you who may know me know that I'm a quiet person and that speaking in front of people is by no means a strength of mine. As a matter of fact, I may be the last person you thought would be delivering a speech to you yet. Here I am about to open up to the entire school. I've spent many hours trying to come up with the best way to present this talk.

Do I want to take a more personal approach, superficial, philosophical, or do I want to tell a story? Ultimately, it came down to the question. Who am I trying to talk to? And what am I trying to tell them? The answer? Anyone who will listen. Some of, you may be logged on to this meeting while you pay no attention.

And that is perfectly okay. Some of you may be actively listening, but not take anything away from this speech, but for the small group of you, even if that is one person who can truly understand my words and feel the meaning behind them, then this is for you to start and put it simply, this will be a talk about depression.

I know some of you may not be thinking, not another talk about this. But if there's one thing I've learned over the last few years is that people you may not even think of are suffering from this illness. I've heard many powerful chapel talks before me. And it was those where I heard that someone was going for similar struggles as myself that left the greatest impact, because I knew I wasn't the only one.

And that is why I am here today. Let me ask you a quick question. How many of you hear these thoughts in your head? I'm worthless. I'm unlovable. I'm ugly. No one likes me. I'm alone. I'm sure the majority, majority of you have experienced these thoughts living in this world, especially during these tumultuous times is hard enough.

We are in the hardest years of our lives, the teenage ones, not to mention the fact that that the planet is in a crisis. People are still fighting for basic rights. Loved ones are dying from the pandemic. And even when we do get to the other side, there are so many pieces that need to be cleaned up. Now on top of everything, I just mentioned, add those intrusive thoughts in a depressed mind.

There they're amplified like a speaker in a small cell is a never ending battle against your own mind. One that in reality cannot be one because there are only two options. Keep fighting or lose. I have suffered from depression and panic disorders. Since my late elementary school years, I attribute this to personal reasons, as well as the luck of the draw and how my brain is wired.

The point is I've been aware for many years that I could go through a dark spell at any moment while I've had a few, none are compared to the junior and my junior fall and winter after a buildup and boggling of emotions for a long period of time, it took quite a few months before I began to lose control.

I can't quite remember where the breaking point was. There was some time during last October, I felt isolated at ghosts. Like I had no one, but there's not to say I didn't have any close friends because I did, but I didn't fit into the larger crowd because my mind wouldn't would constantly tell me that I didn't belong.

I would sit in the dining hall with other people and feel invisible. It felt as though every time I spoke, no one heard me or at least they didn't acknowledge me. The worst part was when I would say something like a joke or an answer to a question, not be heard and then only have someone else say the same thing and be acknowledged by the rest.

I know this may seem like a small and insignificant occurrence, but when this continuously happens to you, whether you're in a social group or playing your sport, it begins to take its toll and it reinforces those thoughts in your head. I just wanted to be heard and to be understood, but here's where it gets complicated because I wanted to be heard and understood by the wrong people.

This may sound wrong and even mean. But even though I was, I was loved and accepted by my friends when I was still left feeling like I wasn't enough. I felt like I needed to find acceptance elsewhere. Maybe if I could find someone who saw me, then I would find some self-worth. I wish I could go back in time and knock some sense into myself because you cannot derive your self worth from the acceptance of others.

They will never meet the expectations you have created for yourself in your head. And when they let you down, you're left feeling worse off. But of course, I did not realize this. As I dug my own hole deeper and deeper, I felt so alone. And the voice inside my head was becoming unbearable, but it wasn't just a sadness.

It was a self hatred. Hatred of myself and who I was, my personality, my appearance, and that it was my own fault for being the way I was. I couldn't reach out on my own or perhaps it was because I didn't want to, because I wanted someone to reach out to me, but that is not how the world works. At least not in high school, everyone is going through their own problems and we lack the skills to see beyond that, that doesn't make us bad people.

It just makes us human. However, I waited and waited for someone to help me, but no one did. And the pain in my head only grew. I can not describe this feeling in words, but like a pit of hopelessness, darkness, emptiness, and feeling trapped with no way out, you wake up in the morning, prepare yourself for the world of pain you will feel throughout the day.

And then at night you go over that pain. Let it consume you until you fall asleep and the cycle begins again. It is exhausting, but I put on a smile every day after. Okay. And hope someone would somehow see past my mask, but no one did by November. I lost control. I couldn't control my emotions, my own head, the people in my life, my sports or my grades.

And I was spinning out losing sight of any horizon I could use to study myself. I became desperate and I needed something that I could hold on to. And I was feeling that indescribable and tangible pain. I need to feel something else, anything else? So I would hurt myself and it became an addiction, not only because of the endorphins with each new Mark, both the physical reminder of what I was and what I thought I deserved.

And maybe the way I hate to admit it, there was a part of me unconscious or not that wanted to be hurt because then maybe with someone maybe someone would finally see and hear my cry for help. I was asked a couple of times what had happened, but come up with some crazy answers and no one asked questions, maybe because they believe me, or maybe because they didn't know how to handle the truth.

The more time went on the worst things got, I needed a lifeline. And again, I thought I could find that somewhere else. I began reaching out to people, but not in a healthy way. These were people I was friendly with, but not close to. And I began to unload everything onto them. And told them everything, because I thought if they became involved, that would automatically make them help me love and accept me.

I know how manipulative the sounds and for the people I did this too. I am sorry, but you have to realize it's not about me than about others who are suffering. We are not trying to hurt or manipulate you because we would never wish the pain we feel onto someone else. We are simply drowning and they're trying to, or trying our best to grab on to anything that might keep us afloat.

This went on for a couple of months and it kept me somewhat steady until it didn't. I was a burning building and burning building and just expected others to rush in and save me. I now understand that was unfair and they weren't equipped to help me, but when they stopped reaching out, stop talking to me except for the friendly hello in the halls, or unless I reached out first.

It hurts like salt in the wound. I felt as though I was beyond help and that I was too broken, I didn't want to fight anymore. And I was so tired. There were too many times where I would get into my car and leave school, unsure if I would actually make it home times at night where I wasn't sure if I would see the morning, I couldn't see any other way out or any hope of things getting better.

But, like I said, people like myself with this internal pain do not want others to hurt. And I knew the world of hurt. I would leave behind if I did anything, even though I was convinced no one would really care. There would be a period of sadness and mourning and then life would move on. And life did move on, but with me in it, and as weird as it sounds, it only took a global pandemic for me to take a step back from my life and take a good look at it and take note of what I had of who I had, the people who I stayed in touch with, who made quarantine bearable, who brightened my days as the world, tried to diminish it.

All that made me feel awful at school was closed off quite literally. And I saw what really mattered. I know for those of you who are sitting at home or in school who have felt this way or feeling this way now, I feel like nothing will be better and that you have no one to reach out to. And I get that.

I felt it not being able to ask for help for, from the people who actually cared and love me, because then they would see how broken I was. I thought if I could keep that part of myself hidden away, only display the me that I wanted to be seen. Then they would continue to love me. Meanwhile, the part of me that was struggling and hurting, I show to others who weren't as close without giving them the chance to see the person who I really was not being defined by this disease.

But that is the thing about depression because you can't split it. It will always win and always consume the other half. It is a part of me, whether I like it or not, but this is where I want anyone else who is struggling to listen closely. Depression is maybe part of what you are, but there's not who you are, who you are, is a deep, thoughtful, unique, and loved person out of the 7.79 billion people on this earth.

There's only one you one, you will rise up and then you will fall maybe worse than before, but then you get up again. There will always be another wave, but that is how the ocean keeps on moving. I have three hopes for today. One that when you leave this meeting, you did not see me for my depression, but for the message I've tried to convey as an individual who is fighting to do better for myself and for others.

Second, if someone, you know, decides to reach out to you, be there, I know it's scary, but the reality is they have come to you because you make them forget their numbness. The smallest act of kindness can mean more than you will ever know. And third, I hope that anyone who is watching this, even if there's just one person will be touched enough to reach out to family, friends, or partner have hope if not in yourself and then them, because they will love you regardless.

And if you ever want someone to talk to, but they're just too afraid, you can always talk to me. And I promise I will listen to you. I would close with a quote that I once read with the hope that it resonates with you as it did me. Scars remind us of where we've been, but they do not have to dictate where we are going.

This far, I have lived my entire life under an irrational set of expectations. Nobody has ever told me that I needed to live by these rules, but in my head I've always felt this indescribable pressure. My parents never get mad at me. If I get a bad grade, they never pushed me too hard and athletics. They never tell me I'm not living up to their expectations.

They have never even come close to giving me a sense that I am disappointing them in any impactful way yet in my mind, I've always felt as if I am disappointing people. I worry that I'm not living up to my parents' dreams for me. I worry that I'm not being a good enough friend or teammate or peer. I worry that I'm hurting others and that I'm not fulfilling everybody.

Else's dreams for what they want me to be. I have lived my life in a constant frantic state and my attempt to try to please people yet. I never feel as if I'm doing a good enough job. I live under this false reality that I am a disappointment that I've never done enough to please people and that I will never be able to.

I pushed myself very hard in every aspect of my life in school, in sports, in the gym. I push myself to talk to people, support people and be social. I pushed myself to be a good sister, friend and person. I'm constantly pushing myself out of my comfort zone and to this constant state of discomfort, to try to achieve the feeling that I'm pleasing other people, but even with all of this effort, there's always this little voice in the back of my head telling me that I'm not doing anything quite right.

I spend a lot, a lot of time thinking over situations in my brain. I pick apart every action that I've completed during the day as I lie in bed, trying to sleep, I stay up because I can not let go of any moment. I spend hours beating myself up about saying the wrong thing, doing the wrong thing. As I lie in bed, I dream of scenarios where I will say and do the right thing and finally have the sense that I'm doing well in the eyes of others.

I dreamed that my actions will always please people. And then in turn, I will be able to be happy. Last year, I struggled a lot. I spent a lot of time in my head thinking about how is not doing enough to please other people, this constant internal suffering brought me to a point where I thought that absolutely nothing I did was ever good enough if I did well in school, I'd find some way to undermine my success.

If I did well in a S in a sport. I found some way to disprove my accomplishment anytime I would do well, I'd find a way to make my brain think that it was a mistake and I really was not good enough. These constant negative thoughts finally caught up to me in the cold dark winter of last year. I found myself in a dark hole each day.

I suffered from the feeling that I was not good enough. These thoughts stemmed from my lifelong worry of disappointing others. I even found a way to make my sadness feel as though I was disappointing others, this constant worry manifested itself in extreme anxiety, I could hardly function. I could hardly go to school.

I could hardly eat. I could hardly be seen in public. I could hardly sleep. I felt so guilty for feeling sad that I felt like I couldn't tell my closest friends that I was struggling. I felt so guilty for. Being depressed that I felt as though I couldn't tell my own mother or father or brothers that I was struggling.

I spent a deep portion of that winter struggling in silence. The way that I had functioned in any sort of normal way was by smoking pot beginning in December of my junior year, I began to smoke a lot of pot. I'd wake up in the morning and smoke I'd smoke in between classes. I would smoke all day using it as a crutch to hide my emotions and curb my anxiety.

I spent a significant portion of that year floating through the days. If I got too sad or too anxious, I would simply smoke the pain away. What I didn't realize at that point was that those feelings don't go away. If you just push them farther into the back of your brain, but each day I'd push them a little farther.

And the next day they would just come back even more intense. My life was falling apart before my eyes, I was supposed to be this great student and athlete. I couldn't even make it my way into the dining hall to grab a meal. My life was falling apart and the only thing I could control it was my eating.

I became obsessed with my food intake. I've become so anxious when it went in the dining hall that I would leave in tears. I felt like I was naked when I walked in between those tables. I felt as though people could see past my mask, I knew that I was not the strong person that I put out. The lack of caloric intake made me suffer in a different way than I had before I can hardly focus in class.

I could hardly play hockey each time I moved on the ice. It took the most effort that I've ever put into anything. I lived in this vicious cycle for a long time. I was sad and anxious. So I smoked. I was sad and anxious and could not eat. I was sad and anxious and got sick and couldn't go to class. I cannot quite remember what caused me to realize that was beyond saving myself.

But one day I finally broke down and reached out to my mother for help. I distinctly remember this overwhelming relief that somebody finally knew how hard it was for me to stay alive. Every day. I felt the biggest release, knowing that I had somebody who could talk to and who could help me through my darkest moments, nothing got better quickly.

Depression does not work like that. It took time. I began to meet with a therapist and started working through my thoughts. I learned to accept certain ones and to create different neural pathways to change the way that I thought about

other things. I began taking antidepressants to help normalize my serotonin levels. It took time, but I finally began to feel normal. I could sleep. Normally I could eat. Normally I could function as a normal person. It was not easy or fast and I could not have done it alone. I relied very heavily on my beautiful ginger friend, Julie and wonderful dogs and supportive mother to provide me a home in a place of comfort.

I relied strongly on my mother who never wavered for one second. Even when I would call her at night telling her that I didn't want to be alive anymore. She somehow could provide me the love that I needed in those moments, through the phone. My father would always text me that he loved me just when I needed to hear it.

My brothers were constantly telling me that I could do it important to know that things often do not get better. If you struggle alone, I'm a strong believer that one must share their experiences and talk about their struggles to help them through hard times. That's going to be extremely difficult as it has been for me during certain periods of my life.

It's important to find a network. There'll be there to support you when you're both happy and sad. Being sad is not a crime and should not make you feel guilty. Things do change. They will get better. Nothing is permanent. I'd like to close by sharing the four agreements written by Don Miguel Ruiz. Um, I believe that they will, that we will all be happier if we work to live by these four simple principles, there are as follows.

Number one, be impeccable with your word. Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word and the direction of truth and love. Number two, don't take anything personally. Nothing others do is because of you while there say and do is a projection of their own reality, their own dream.

When you're immune to the opinions of actions of others, you won't be the victim of needless suffering. Number three, don't make assumptions. Find the courage to ask questions and express what you really want. Communicate with others. As clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness and drama, number four, always do your best.

Your best is going to change from moment to moment. It will be different when you're healthy, as opposed to sick under any circumstance, simply do your best and you will avoid self-judgment self-abuse and regret.
My mom has always been my rock. I go to her whenever I need advice and she has never failed to be there for me. She always understands my pain because she has experienced more pain than I can comprehend, even though I try not to burden her too much, because I know how much she has on her plate. She still has always given me a shoulder to cry on and hope that I can get through difficult times.

However, this all changed when our roles were burst and she very much needed someone there for her. Even when she did not know it, I saw the strongest person in my life. Get broken down by someone who didn't deserve a fraction of her love. And I had to do everything I could to be there for her, no matter how much I thought it wasn't helping.

She began dating her boyfriend Derek about three years ago. I was very happy for her at first. And I knew she deserved to be treated well. She had already been through her divorce with my dad and after that two different serious relationships in which she got cheated on, but Derek seemed different and better.

They spent lots of time together and their relationship started off very healthily after meeting him for the first time, my brother and I had no complaints. He started coming to our house for dinner more often. And we all got along well, one night though, we had dinner together right after him and my mom had gotten over an argument and I could tell something was off in the relationship.

My mom had recently not seemed as happy to be around him and they didn't look as excited when they were together. So I regret it today. I chose to give my mom her space because I thought that she was generally happy with him and didn't have much, she was holding in. Not long after this happened, my brother and I noticed that Derek wasn't as nice as he first seemed, he would make passive aggressive comments to us and my mom and talk to us in a way that no one should, especially someone who wasn't even family towards the end of my sophomore year, I came home for the weekend and I found out that earlier in the week, my brother had justifiedly called Derek out on something.

He said to my mom too, which Derek decided to decided to punch a hole in the wall of my house. Keep in mind that my brother was only 12 at the time, and clearly, already much more mature than Derek. A few weeks later, I went to the beach with my cousin for the day and was listening to music, using the Spotify account that I shared with my mom, meaning that only one of us could listen to music at a time, but neither of us could tell when the other already listening.

So we would often interrupt each other's music this day. My mom accidentally started playing music when I already was. So I FaceTimed her to explain what she did. She happened to be in the car, driving somewhere with Derek at the time. And he should have had nothing to do with our conversation. As I was trying to explain to my mom that I was listening to my music when she started playing hers, Derek began yelling at me for reasons.

I still don't know to this day. I was just trying to have a normal conversation with her when he freaked out at me. But this isn't the worst part after I hung up on her because of how frustrated I was. She continued to play her music. And when I talked to her later, she took his side. Not sparing my choice of words.

I told her he had no reason to talk to me that way. And I threatened to go to my dad's house. So she didn't explain to Derek how disrespectful he had been to me. I refuse to talk to him after that. He never apologized to me. So it's not like I had to anyways, but that was my last conversation with him, despite their relationship continuing for over another year.

And I don't know how much love they truly had for each other. It often seemed as if they stayed in the relationship because they were both afraid of being alone, but I can't speak for them. What kept them constantly walking on eggshells with each other though, was the alcohol. My mom had never been a huge drinker and I had only seen her drink with friends once in a while before she met Derek.

But Derek drinking a lot would also get my mom to join him. And when I say he drank a lot, I mean, a lot, he would meet up with his friends almost every night and get drunk. And if he wasn't working, he would go in the morning too. My mom was never a fan of how much he drank, but if he invited her out somewhere where he would be drinking, she would too.

She wouldn't drink quite as much, but still enough. So they fought when they were both sober, they're drinking, made it 10 times worse. She would leave his house after an argument and crying and distraught to come home to my brother and I who didn't know how to come for her. Her signature lines were, I'm a bad mother and I'm fine.

I'm going to bed both. Aren't true. But after the second one, she would often storm to her room and cry herself to sleep. She was absolutely miserable and nothing. My brother and I could have done would have helped her. For seeing what would happen every weekend or then stopped coming home from school and stayed on campus.

Instead, I would FaceTime my mom every once in a while and check in with her to make sure she was okay. Sometimes she would tell me they were together and sometimes they were temporarily broken up, which was normal in their relationship. I ended up only going home when I knew I was staying with my dad.

If I saw my mom, it was only during the day knowing she was going to see him in the evening, take her every weekend, verbal abuse and go home crying. No matter how many times I tried to tell her that he was only making her life worse. She couldn't, and wouldn't listen. She was so broken by him, but it only made her more emotionally attached to him.

And it took years for her to finally leave him. And even though it seems as if it would have been an easy decision for my mom to leave him based on how poorly he treated her, it was anything but that my brother and I often very openly expressed our feelings about him to my mom. To which she would either acknowledge how he felt, but not do anything about it, or just ignore us all together.

Up until the summer before my junior year, she knew how I felt about him, but I never truly told her how much pain her relationship had put me through. One night when we were in Maine, I sat her down and had a conversation with her, telling her how I felt like she'd constantly chosen horrible person over my brother and I, and how I couldn't stand the thought of someone so detrimental to her mental health and her life.

Like always, she acknowledged my feelings and nothing changed after that. I practically begged her on my knees to leave him time and time again. But I realized that there was nothing I could do after that. I gave up, kept out of their business and stayed at friend's houses. As often as I could to avoid the toxicity of their relationship as much going on.

And their relationship continued the same way it had always been. I could tell my mom was reaching her breaking point. She knew that Derek remaining in her life was only making it worse, but she wasn't quite at the point of leaving him once. And for all. In November of my junior year, my mom took me to North Carolina for the weekend for a soccer tournament a few days before we left her and Derek had broken up again.

But this time my mom was convinced, convinced that it was the final straw. The problem with this though, was that she didn't want it to be the final straw. She was still holding onto the little hope left in their relationship and wouldn't take any advice. I gave her on moving on after trying a few times to convince her to let it be and finally get away from him.

I realized that it wasn't working. So I put my hatred aside and did my best to help her out and getting him back because I knew that when they finally broke up, it would have to be her doing and not mine. When my mom, when my mom and I returned home, after our weekend away, they obviously got back together.

Despite how badly attached she was to him. She kept telling me the entire weekend that she didn't want to be with him. She just didn't have the courage yet to end things. So I gave her time. They're all in our relationship. Pick back up again with the drinking and arguing. And I knew the end was in sight.

I just didn't know when and how it would happen. Then in February of 2020, just a few months after she told me in North Carolina that she was building up the courage to leave him, she finally did. And it wasn't some huge breakthrough moment. Like she might've wanted it to be, but she did it. And that's all that matters.

They go onto one of their arguments like they always did in this time. Instead of going back to him, she was strong enough to risk being alone, knowing she would be happy again, eventually. As much as she wanted to run back to him and pick back up where they left off, she knew that he had already ruined her life enough and that she couldn't take it anymore.

There are lots of tears and difficult days. My mom finally got over dark. It took her months and she still to this day gets on you be talking about him, but she can say with confidence that she is so much happier. Now, she also finally had her breakthrough moment when she ran into him again, a few months later and screamed at him, proud daughter moment for sure.

And even if she wanted to, she can't go back to him again because her best friend. And I had told her that if she dies, he's kicked out of the family, but in all seriousness, I couldn't be more proud of my mom for being brave enough to let go of a large part of her life. And she will always be the strongest person I know, regardless of who tries to tear her down.

September 7th, 2017, dear Abigail dad. On this day, three years ago, you sent me a text telling me to check the top drawer of my desk in my newly decorated freshmen dorm room. I remember that day in chunks, blurry and few and far between as I was far more nervous than I expected. But this part, I remember vividly as I sat on my little twin bed, scared and far from home, I took in each and every word, like it was the script to a play.

I was just beginning to start.

Okay. September 7th, 2017. Dear Abigail dad. On this day, three years ago, you sent me a text telling me to check the top drawer of my desk in my newly decorated freshmen dorm room. I remember that day in chunks, blurry and few and far between as I was far more nervous than I could have ever expected. But this part I remember vividly as I sat on my little twin bed, scared and far from home, I took an each and every word, like it was the script to a play.

I was just beginning to start. I remember crying because he wrote how proud of me you were. And although we have always been pretty much the same person in different forms, I was excited to be able to share something as special as gov with you. I knew from then on, it would always connect us. Although if I'm being honest, I can't say it quite believed each and every word you wrote, but I couldn't have been more wrong.

I've tried to think of a way these past three years to try and explain how grateful I am for you pushing me to step out of my comfort zone and into this new experience. I've thought a million times over of trying to start that conversation, how I would word it and explain everything I'd wanted you to know.

But I know that both of us being the big babies we are, would just start crying and I would never be able to get out each and every word that I wanted to say. Dad three years ago, you wrote me a letter on the start of a journey that changed my life forever. And I think it's time. I finally wrote back February 3rd, 2021.

Do your death surprise. I just wanted to say that I had this pretty well considering I absolutely suck at surprises. I can't tell you how nervous I was that you would ask to read over my talk. And I actually debated writing a fake one to give to you just in case. But I decided against it back to the important part.

By the time you here, this letter, I would be up standing in the chapel in front of everyone. In-person in online in the midst of a global pandemic, trying to find a way to thank you for forever changing my life through the last four years. You said that I would feel a mix of excitement and fear on my first day.

And ironically, that's exactly how I would describe my emotions right now. Daddy told me not much about my life at home would change when I went to ghosts because you knew the thing I worried about most was leaving home behind. Never once. Could I have imagined that a weekend would come where the last thought on my mind would be going home?

Because for the first time in my life, I had a second home that I never wanted to leave even more. I mean, if you would've told me that in the middle of all of the crazy things happening in our world, the place I would want to be most was a school. I probably checked to see if you had a fever and maybe take you to the doctor.

If you would have told me at the beginning of all this, that a school could change so much for me, I never would have believed you. In fact, I'm sure both of us can remember the fights we got into when you first brought up the idea of me going to boarding school. I was stubborn and reluctant to change.

Although I can't imagine where I get that from. I didn't want to leave behind all my friends, the relationships I built and more than anything, the comfort of routine. I decided, well, writing this that the best way to tell you how grateful I am is by telling you all the ways that you proved yourself, right.

And me wrong. And if I were you, I would listen up because this is the first and last time I will ever admit that you were right. One of the first things you told me in your letter was that the faculty here would always care about me, not just as a student, but as a person now. And I both know very well that middle school, Abigail and her teachers were not exactly the best of friends.

Kelly. Shavera still appears in my nightmares to this day, yelling at me about my use of the past tense and my lack of engagement in our four week class discussion about the great depression, which greatly confused me because it was an English class. We're not even going to get into my relationship with my chemistry teacher.

That's not even a chapel talk, but a book of its own. So you can imagine my surprise when my new chemistry teacher, Ms.  not only walk me through each and every concept, but also told me how she believed in me and supported me in the classroom and on the field hockey thing, field hockey field. Just another thing I never expected would happen, never in my life.

Could I have expected that one day I would be not only actively reaching out to teachers when I needed help and feeling comfortable doing so. But that I would actually find myself crying in my advisor's office over the fact that I forgot to add a dorsal fin to my fake fish from Marine class. Well, he tried not to laugh at me.

I could have never imagined actually going to one of my teachers and being that vulnerable. I've cried in there for a lot of other reasons, but that's another story, dad, you told me the faculty here would care about me, but you didn't tell me that they would help me through schoolwork hard days. And even just listening to me vent when I was having one of those days, all those small actions made such a huge difference.

And I've never felt more supported than I am here. And I have you to thank for that. I think the greatest example I can give to show how different Gov's was from what I was used to is when I came here for the first time everyone held the door for me, even though they had never met me before. I remember looking with you and you told me that was normal here.

It's just how things worked. So the next day, as I approached the doors to my middle school, I looked down having dropped my headphones, assuming the door would be held for me and promptly, got a large glass door, smashed into my small and unsuspecting nose. The rest of the day went downhill from there.

You know, if I'm being honest, I never believed you. When you said the people I connect with here would stay with me forever. I always assume my friends from middle school were the closest I would have. Daddy told me I would make friends. And I believe you. But you didn't tell me they would become my family.

You didn't tell me I would trust them more than anyone ever before. You didn't tell me how I would spend far more time in their rooms than my own or FaceTime day student friends on weekends until they could come selves in person. You didn't tell me the breaks will be filled with phone calls and texts because we miss not being just down the hall from one another.

You didn't tell me that I wouldn't just have friends in migraine, but students both younger and older than myself, something that never happens in Sudbury. You didn't tell me that one day I would be a Proctor in the best storm, trying to do math homework with Abby. Well, Mia and Sarah laughed at us or telling Lily to go do her homework, but ending up watching Trisha paid us dumbest moments, compilations until midnight with her.

It'd be. And Sophie, you didn't tell me that I would cry hard, laugh even harder and feel deeper when I'm with these people and dad, you certainly never told me just how hard it would be to think of leaving them. The friends I've made here. The people I connected with dad, I never want to lose them. And to be honest, I don't think I ever will.

That I hope this letter shows even the smallest bit. How much you mean to me? Does it mean I'll stop fighting with you about anything and everything, including what we get for dinner? Not even in the slightest, but I want you to know just how thankful I am for you and mom giving me the chance to go here.

It has really made all of the difference in my life. The people that I found here, students, faculty, and staff are some of the best that I will ever know. I love you so much, dad. And I know I wouldn't be half the person I am today without you. You make me better every day. Dad, the biggest piece of advice that you gave me in that letter was it.

If I ever got scared to remember, the school is just like being in a play. You have to do a bit of singing and dancing in front of everyone. And that can be scary, but if I could do it in a real show with the bright lights of the microphones, I could certainly do it in this one. Dad. I hope you're proud of my performance, especially my big solo and I can't wait for the Encore of college.

Hi, everybody. I'm, Bimba not Bomba, not Bluebeam and certainly not Bambi little known fact. My real name is Maria Isabella, but my self-described childhood nickname has stuck all these years. So here I am is probably the one and only Beba that we'll ever set foot on our physical and virtual campus.

Today. I want to talk about mistakes and failures, something I am quite experienced in. Not the Eleanor shelf, strop mistake in life choices that would send me to the bad place or that one, that woman on family feuds end up Popeye's favorite food was chicken, but still I make mistakes. And I feel often that things I'm trying to do.

For example, one morning in seventh grade, while playing Pictionary and homeroom with my best friend, Kate, she suddenly blurted out that she was going to Groton for eighth grade. I was so mad at her. Because she told me so abruptly and for making this decision to leave in the first place, she and I had spent so much time together at school and on weekends that without her, I wasn't sure what my life would be.

Like. I quickly concluded that if she wasn't going to be around, then I wouldn't either. I decided to run away far away. To Italy. It made perfect sense to me. I left late one night and flew directly to Lake Como. I first hung out with George Clooney then staying. So Richard Branson pad was sweet for COF couple of weeks to even a Dickie Branson, right.

A Virgin galactic Spain. But eventually I got bored. So Dickie kindly flew me home on one of his jets. I wish that's what happened. That would have been awesome. It said my grand plan never materialized. I started researching how to get to Italy if you know me well, you know, I love to research random things in depth.

Really in-depth like one time I researched why the phrase it's the cat's pajamas came to fruition and it turns out that it was popularized in the 1920s. During the jazz age, it usually refers to something very fancy and highly sought after. On that trip down the rabbit hole. I learned the other phrases similar to this one, include the ducks.

Quiet, please. Knees elephants, wrist, heels, ankles, elephants, arches bull froze beer and left them stripes. Wow, that's a lot, but I digress back to my point, planning to run away. I researched twice in hotels and did a pretty good job if I do say so myself, but then I started to ask myself other questions like.

What would I do in Italy on my own? And how long would I stay there? And would I ever tell my parents where I was a few hours into my research? I realized too basic, but glaring issues. I had no money at my own, and I had no idea where my passport was. And then the countless other flaws in my plans, in my plan to lose my head.

Like how lonely I'd be without my family. I probably miss them. If I just went down the street and lived out of a tent for a couple of weeks, I was out of my mind thinking I had to pull off running away. So I ultimately abandoned the, the entire plan, but the idea of running away, but not being the actual mistake I made, especially since it never got past being just an idea.

What was absolutely a massive mistake in judgment was thinking that literally running away from my problems would solve them in the end, even though Kate would be a way it's not like we wouldn't be able to talk or couldn't still plan on meeting up during holidays, our friendship wasn't in any actual danger.

Sure. It would have been nice to really hang with Clooney, staying in Branson on my dream trip, but that'll just have to wait. Another great example happened during ninth grade here at Gov's you were here, then you might remember my attempt to run for class president. I had prepared my speech and was a little nervous about giving it, even though I'd been performing in front of people since kindergarten, I continued to suffer from stage fright.

The cool thing about running for class president is that I figured it would not only get me over that fear, but it would also help my classmates get to know me better. Well, I got to know me, not in the way I intended on the day. I nervously stood in front of my classmates in the back of the dining hall, like shaking hands, held the scriptures.

I began reading slowly as I gained more confidence. My voice is deeper, stronger. The audience seemed to be really digging my speed with their applause and smiles. I felt so good up there that I decided to add live. Possibly go wrong with that idea. Here's what happened when you were in ninth grade? Some of us like yours, truly experiment using bigger words to impress teachers and friends.

If you're a ninth grader listening to this right now, here's my friendly advice. Don't try a new word in front of the whole class that you don't really understand. You might be thinking what's the big deal. So what have you used one word when you meet another? Sure. Yeah, that's true. But when I was trying to express how responsible I am and meant to use a word like obsession, I decided instead to use a word, I thought I understood.

I exclaimed sort of have a better dish for emails, fetish. Really Bamba. You literally just said you have a sexual desire for emails. What? Oh man, I saw Ms. CAG would do a face pong. Teachers were squirming and worst of all, classmates who clearly have better vocabularies than I do were cackling and smirking.

Luckily convocation was the last block of the day, so I can grab my golf clubs and run away from everyone. I wouldn't be any classmates at practice since I was the only ninth grader on the team. But as I grabbed my golf bag, my good friend Talia approached me and said, well, Oh, great time to use that word.

Yup. I totally deserved that comment. My timing was terrible. I'd put myself out there to impress my classmates, but then my choice to use that one stupid word made them laugh at me. As soon as I got to the golf club locker room, I stopped. Well, I look back on it now and can absolutely chocolate my mistake and relay the story to an even larger audience today.

In that moment, I felt more embarrassed than I ever have while the experience haunted me literally for a number of months, I decided that the only way to lay it to rest was to run for president. Every other chance I had. And that is exactly what I did. I gave each of my attempts, including my bid for Academy, president, everything I had and just what I have failed.

Literally, every time you heard me, right? I have never been elected once. Amazingly enough, the sky did not fall on me because of those failures or my mistakes. I'd wake up the next day and life went on losing didn't matter one iota. What mattered I realized was that I tried and look at me. I'm standing here in front of all of you today, and I'm feeling pretty good about how myself and how the speech is going.

I'm feeling so emboldened bright out. In fact, I'm like finish up my travel talk in a Scottish accent. I've been perfecting throughout high school. What could go wrong with that? Well, second thought maybe you should quit while you're still ahead. Okay. I will Scottish FEMA. So continuing along here, I'd like to point out that in between insists those examples.

I've had plenty of other speed bumps, unexpected exit ramps and detours as Mr. Ogden definitely remembers, I made the mistake of bringing the wrong clothes to school for golf ones. So I had to wear my giraffe, onesy golfing, and said, have you ever tried golf, driving a golf ball in a baggy one city? I don't recommend it.

Embarrassingly though on my first day of triads, as the only girl, I hit Theo Nickoloff list in the head with a golf ball and gave him a concussion, not a great first impression as Mr. Sol Shirley remembers. It was just last year that I practically gave myself a broken nose when I made an assumption. But how do you use a shear in robotics?

I may have a lot of experience in a woodshop, but being overly confident in my knowledge of what a shear is actually used for. Wasn't a mistake. I did get the rod cut at the length I wanted, but I also got a gnarly bloody nose after smashing my face into the handle and the sheer as it recoiled into my face.

Here's the thing. Every time I make a blender or outright fail. I learn a little more about myself and how I can avoid that issue in my next attempt. And sure. Sometimes my next attempt is even worse than my last one, but every time I fall, I get up a little more determined to try harder partially because it hurts to ball.

And I don't want to do it again. But also, because I know that there is a way to improve. I just need to figure out how I've hardly got it all figured out by now. I am constantly perplexed by the world around me. It's fricking confusing, man, but here's the key thing to remember alert to Mr. Ogden. I'm about to shower you with a cliche.

We can't be afraid of mistakes and failures because that's how we humans get better and learn. Perversely good news is that you're guaranteed to learn because it's guaranteed that you will fail and you too will fall in as many virtual potholes in your life as I have. So just get over it now and expect it.

If you know this upfront, you'll put yourself out there and you'll have a lot more fun. The world isn't changed by people who can glide through life without messing up. It's changed by those who are willing to fail in order to find the solutions. This planet will never be filled with perfect people, but there are plenty of people out there who can make it better.

Nothing is stopping you from being one of those people. You just can't be afraid of being vulnerable and falling along the way. Focus on your goal, your target, your North star, not on the pain, the speed bumps and the failures failures. While you're getting there. You will reach your goals, but like Dorian finding Nemo says you gotta just keep swimming and maybe you'll even get to meet Clooney, sting or Branson along the way too.

Thank you. Winter has always been my favorite season. Ever since I was a little kid, I've always been waiting for winter. Yeah. Spring was the final push until summer when there was no school and great sailing trips around Newburyport and then summer led into to fall.

When my family would pick apples, restart school once again and get ready for Thanksgiving. But winter was always there right in the middle of it all the time with one magical little white material, snow, snow is what some would call it. The X factor. No other season has it. Well, most of the time we live in new England, anything goes and it's a game changer in every way.

It allows you to do so many things and has made some great memories for me throughout my life. I remember telling my friends back at Pentucket workshop preschool in my hometown of Georgetown, just 10 minutes from Gov's that winter was my favorite season because my birthday is February 4th, a pretty valid argument for a preschooler.

But I know there were other reasons that contributed to this preschool argument. Of course, this was when we could actually have snow days, meaning that when I woke up and saw the snow, covering the red roof house of our neighbor and the snow caking, the trees just outside my window, I knew this meant a day out, outside playing in the snow and my family and friends.

I have memories of my neighbor Arland, my two brothers and me alternating the underside of his trampoline into an igloo. We spent hours after a two foot snowfall will shovels in hand and snow block makers packing the thick snow on the top and around the edges of his large trampoline, a perfect way to spend a third grade snow day.

Another large factor in my love for the winter started back in first grade, the time I was introduced to skis, my uncle has always been a big skier and he was eager to get us out on skis as early as possible. This for me was the winter of first grade. I hopped in the car early in the morning and drove the 10 minutes to Bradford ski area.

Anybody who has been to Bradford knows it is not the most impressive Hill, but Hey, it's close and okay. Skiing is better than no scan. I walked into the lodge with my parents, my younger brothers and my uncle. We rented skis for the three of us, and we went out on our first lesson. It was hard at first, but I knew I needed more after the first lesson.

The snow under my feet and the almost effortless glide down. The tiny training mountain at Bradford was enough for me to come back for more lessons. I quickly graduated from the little kids slope and was able to make it onto the magic carpet. If you are unfamiliar with magic carpets, they're basically very large rubber belts that you step onto and they grip your skis and pull you up the Hill.

My first attempt saw me putting only one leg on and then falling on my side onto the belt. Not deterred. I tried again and with a little help. I was onto the magic carpet once I was at the top, it took a while to get down, but I survived. And that one was what mattered at the time. Graduating to the Bradford chair came soon after, since I really just couldn't wait to make it to the top.

I was Negro child. My first dried consisted of my dad and uncle on other side of me, pictures being taken by my mother out of line and me excited, but just slightly scared for what was to come. Somehow though I made it on in one piece with my dad and uncle lifting me onto the seat before it could hit me and knocked me flat on my face, the trip down the Hill.

On the other hand, had me falling on my face a few times. Once I made it down, though, my family was proud of me and it was a feeling I will never forget being able to see above the whole town up on the Hilltop was exhilarating for first grade. Me little did I know after just a year or so of lessons at smaller places like Bradford.

I would make it to Maine. We took our first trip to Sunday river and it would not be our last Sunday river was unlike anything I'd ever experienced on skis. The trail seemed to go on forever and the snow was covering everything. A pretty big memory of skiing at Sunday. River comes from my fifth grade year.

Nobody else was out on the slopes that day as it was a weekday while I was on break, my uncle and I were skiing together while my brothers did some other runs. We decided it would be a cool time to go and check out the largest terrain park at Sunday river named T 72. Normally we wouldn't venture in, but we decided that since nobody was there, we would just go in and see it.

Big mistake. I told my uncle, I wanted to check out the big jumps. So we skied up to the first rolling Hill with a large kicker on the top of it. So when you jumped, you can clear the flatter Hill, but it is on this kicker had a steep drop off on the back of it. And I wanted to ski down the next one. This is where the problem started to happen.

I got too much speed to going into the jump and then I merely wanted to ski right over before I knew it. I was four feet in the air and then I wasn't, I had come crashing down right onto my face. Had I not loved having my face covered in all the snow, I probably would have been more disturbed than I was.

I got back up pretty quickly and just kept skiing. I was eager to make more runs before the day ended. Last year a decade had passed since my first ski lessons. And I got to go back to Bradford every week. During the winter with the gov ski team, I joined the team last year, having no race experience. I loved it.

Being able to ski with my friends and coaches every week was such a good time. And I felt like my skiing improved so much. Getting back to Bradford on a regular basis was almost like my skiing had come full circle, starting to learn skiing at Bradford. And then taking my skiing to the next level of Bradford.

11 years later was a great experience for me and showed me if you dedicate your time to something, it might take a long time, but improvement will come improvement takes time and gives you a chance to reflect on your past experiences, to revisit places that were vital to your past improvement in a different way is a really fulfilling experience.

Snow brings people together for so many ways. One of these ways is the snowball fight. The best snowball fights take place in the area with one, not a lot of places to hide two large mountains of snow that are relatively sticky so that you can form perfect projectiles and three, a large group of people.

And let me tell you, when a snowball fight starts in my family, it can get intense, large chunks of snow being dumped on people's heads, full throws from point blank range, people getting picked up and thrown into the snow mounds and everything in between. One of these Wars you might call it even ended up on my gods application four years ago, the application question was to write a short story and under 150 characters, I wrote the mansion house.

Snowball war had begun. I dunked a snowball on Dr. Comey's head. He was speechless. It turns out he can dunk to run. This story took place right after we had gotten a foot of perfect snow dumped on us in one night. To add to what was already there from just a few nights before Gov's campus was empty, but my whole family was there alongside Dr.

Quimby and an act of what I considered at the time to be a preemptive strike. I dropped a giant powdery snowball, right on the top of Dr. Quimby said he repaid the favor by picking up a larger snowball and covering me in it while my brothers watched and laughed. I definitely deserved it this year, though.

The winter season will look a little different. Skiing mountains will be harder to get to with COVID restrictions. There won't be any gatherings altogether, and we might not get to do all of the same things that we traditionally look forward to. But hopefully when you're getting much closer to the light at the end of the tunnel, and we'll be able to enjoy all of the seasons as we once did, but at least for me, I will always be waiting for winter.

I was new. And confused governor's was not the atmosphere I was used to. I essentially had to relearn the social norms of high school, especially after coming from two years of public school. My first introduction to this school was pre-seasoned football, where I officially became ham and cheese.

Everything in life can be interpreted by everyone differently. For example, look at you the way you think about yourself is not the way your friends, your acquaintances or your teachers think about you. Everything in life is subjective. My identity as a cold cut sandwich was indeed subjective. Most people's initial reaction was, do you like being called that?

Or why the hell are you named after a ham and cheese sandwich? And these are both good questions that I truthfully didn't know the answer to at the time. One of my strengths is reading people and I could read that to some ham and cheese was the funniest character in the world. Ham is this kid who is funny and goes by the name of a cold cut sandwich, what's there not to love.

But then there's the flip side. The people who think naming you after a sandwich will tear you down the name Ham and Cheese evolved. I was Hami Hameron, Hamilton. Cheeser Hamsterdam alimony CAISO and the dirty ham man. But most importantly, I was the hand man. Instead of laughing with the ham, sorry.

Instead of laughing at the, instead of laughing with the ham, some people thought it would be a good opportunity to laugh at the hand. What they didn't know was that I was one step ahead of them. I would embrace these nicknames, not even, not even because I necessarily liked them at first. But because sometimes embracing the energy others give you, even if it is intended to be negative energy and turning it into something positive is one of the most beneficial things you can do for yourself.

You'll be calling me Ham and Steez in a year. Watch is what I'd say essentially saying you will respect me to me becoming the dirty hands. Man was an important experience. It taught me that when others want to put you down, don't stand for it. Be vocal. Be clear and portray yourself the way you want to be portrayed, because if I didn't embrace the name and instead went against it, I wouldn't be the one interpreting what the nickname, the dirty ham really meant.

When you don't vocalize and portray yourself the way you want to be portrayed, you will be interpreted incorrectly. I really did embrace this ham and cheese persona where I soaked everything that was thrown my way and I made it part of me. It was my comfort at the school. I felt like two different people from my first year and a half here.

I was Christian every single weekend I was home, but ham, as soon as I stepped foot in Phillips to sign back in, I felt like I had to conform to say and do exactly what others wanted me to do. But instead this experience gave me the opportunity to rebel, to flip what was put on me with what may be seen in a negative light, and rather tell everyone I am the ham man.

Whoever thought a nickname coming from a cold cut sandwich could impact someone positively when I would get upset, I would go talk to my brother, Dan in the dorm. No, I'm not dissing you, Dan, but I think it's hilarious that the most useful words that you would say to me, day in and day out where you are, the ham man.

You can do anything. I think that is where a lot of this embracing of this confident Hammond she's persona came from having faculty like coach Shelton walked by and hit me with the what's up cheese or Mr. Soul's enthusiastic Hemi. Greetings for class would make me smile. I love being the ham, man. Thank you for listening and shout out to those who made me, who I am today.

Thank you, Dr. Quimby. Um, I'd like to dedicate this chapel, talk to the freshmen, sitting in the very back row of the balcony pressed up against the window and a crappy folding chair. I was once you okay. You may not listen to anything I say today. I know if I was in your position in the very back row of the balcony, pressed up against the window in a crappy folding chair, I probably could have cared less what the invisible person behind Hannah Thompson's head had to say.

But I want you to know that as much as your seating assignment suggests, otherwise this community does actually value what you have to contribute and what you have to say. Who knows maybe one day you'll be complaining about your freshman year seating assignment in front of a half asleep audience. The world is your oyster.

I remember when I used to sit up there in the very back row of that balcony pressed up against the window in a really crappy folding chair. I spent a lot of time thinking about. My own future chapel talk. I envisioned it would go something like this. Dr. Quimby would come up to the podium. I'd like to welcome.

Today's chapel speaker, Scott Wilson. Sorry, scotch Wilson. I'm sorry, scotch. Uh, Scott scotch. Wilson, everybody clap, clap, clap, clap. Clap.

 thank you, Dr. Quimby. I'd like to dedicate my chapel talk today to the freshmen sitting in the very, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, crappy folding chair. Then I would get, uh, continued to the rest of the speech. 100 reasons why I hate the governor's Academy.

Number one. What is a squid? Why am I a squid??

True story. Number two, I have no friends. Number three, Nick Ingemi.

that that's, uh, that's payback for that concussion. You gave me freshman year. So we're even now. Number four, number four. Everyone treats me like an idiot because of my concussions. Thank you, Nick. Number five. I have no friends. I imagined I would go through this whole long winded list of grievances. Tell everybody to go screw themselves and call it a day.

That was my dream. But as I began writing this chapel talk last night, I quickly realized that what, what freshmen scotch. Wanted to say. And what senior scotch wants to say are, are two very different chapel talks. Here's the ladder. My memory of freshman year is hazy. Here's what I do. Remember. I left home as the mayor of my middle school and arrived on campus in the fall as a squid, a squid in a sea of red dogs.

As soon as I got here, uh, gets a squid. Oh my God, the Squid's here. What's up squid. That was me. I was like, fantastic. I'm a squid. What's a squid. Oh. As I quit. Well, you learned being a squid, not a good thing. You don't want to be a squid. Being a squid is like a social stamp of disapproval. The question then becomes how does a squid make friends.

The answer, he doesn't

by virtue of having this stamp on my forehead, I became untouchable. I mean, let's be honest. I wants to hang out with a squid as absurd as it sounds. I actually believe this mind you, I didn't even know what a squid was. I still don't. What is a squid? Here's what I think a squid is based on a field study.

Of other campus squids and action.

Excuse me. Squids are weirdos. Nonconformance outliers. They don't necessarily look like your average cookie cutter govs kid. They're not from around here. They don't know the lingo. And unless you tell them to their face, a squid would never know they're a squid. The worst thing is squid can be as different as a freshmen.

I didn't realize that being different, being an outlier reject and conformity is a strength. And I think a lot of outliers suffer when they first get here for that same reason, say what you want about what Gov's does or doesn't value, you know, honesty. Was he honest about ordering a pizza or the seven essential skills skill number seven.

Hey, you know, what are you going to do? Let's go number seven, donating money to the Academy. I think what Gov's values. I think,

I think what, um, I think what Gov's values above all else is conformity conformity to this idea of being a tri varsity athlete. Getting perfect grades, not being different, not being weird. Everybody needs a Canada goose jacket or a Jeep, whatever it might be. Nonconformance, you're a shunned and pushed to the side until senior year.

Then all of a sudden the squids are celebrated being funny or different or weird can be seen as a strength. So if you think you might be a squid, if you're thinking this is not the place for me, my advice to you is wait it out. Because come senior year, those differences will be celebrated if you own them.

If you don't think you can wait any longer, I'll tell you how I made Gov's bearable. Why I'm giving this chapel talk instead of my freshman year, middle finger to the Academy. First I made a friend by God. I finally made a friend John ransom. You might remember him. It was like a Saturday night in February.

Freezing. Still no friends. I went to the student center alone was sorta loitering around classic squid move. All of a sudden this kid asked me to play ping pong with him. This was unprecedented. It was like, Oh no, don't, you know, I'm a squid where we're not to be associated with. He wouldn't hear it. Let's go.

Why'd he? Ping-pong well, okay. We're hitting the ball back and forth. Oh, you hate Gov's. Yeah. I freaking hate this place. Boom, immediate connection

genre. I had learned had a similar freshman experience as myself. It got so bad for a genre his freshman year being quiet, alone and pissed off all the time that some students became concerned that he might be an Islamic terrorist after he posted a video of some of his Muslim relatives on Snapchat.

That's a true story. John was a lot of things, but ISIS terrorist was not one. I'd had a pretty bad freshman year, but no one was accusing me of being a terrorist. So. Like all things that got better for him with time. And by a sophomore year, he had a healthy group of friends. His friends adopted me and all of a sudden Gov's didn't seem so daunting next year we roomed and the rest is history.

So first piece of advice find a group of friends who accept you. And more, most importantly, who you can complain with, Gov's truly changed for me. When I stopped caring about people, what other people thought of me? It was the height of thesis season junior year. By then it was clear. I probably didn't have a future as a varsity athlete.

So I decided to play to my strengths and did the winter musical, the role I got, interestingly enough was a masochistic Dennis patient who gets turned on by having his mouth operated on clearly a typecast, the dentist in question, none other than our friend, Sam Ivy. Let me tell you. After having to pretend it in front of an entire audience, like Sam, Ivy yelling and spitting and shoving Dennis tools in my face made me violently horny.

I think it became physically impossible for me to feel the emotion of embarrassment,

which is, which is a wonderful thing. After that, whatever, whatever flimsy filter I had left was gone forever. And the boundary pushing off the cuff. Photo list Scott's, you know, today was born next page. That's my next piece of advice. Stop caring about what other people think about you you'll find more often than not that they'll come to respect you for being you.

My last piece of advice before you leave here is to take a risk in a sport and art, a class at home, or in a relationship, do something out of the ordinary. The worst thing that can happen to you is nothing changes the best thing. Well, I'll get to that. The biggest risk I've taken a gov was running for social head.

I almost, I almost didn't do it.

Thank you, Lisa. There was about 20 minutes left before the deadline and I decided. Screw it scrambled to get some signatures and throw in the application. Fantastic. I don't stand a chance. The way I saw it was I'd come in as an unknown against the obvious Victor, Aaron and our good friend, Nick, I'd write a couple of jokes, make some people laugh and call it a day.

As we know, that's not what happened. And because I took that risk, Gus became worth it. I finally proved to myself I could do it, but despite. Whatever rough patch I had suffered through freshman year. Eventually I could share the real me with all of you. My friends have been telling me I should be a comedian since fifth grade.

I never believed them. And I never thought I would actually have the balls to get on stage and find out. But thanks to you all. I have the opportunity and the obligation to write material every week and perform it. What seemed like such a distant reality has become a legitimate possibility. Once I proved to myself, I could do it.

So if you're suffering here and you're thinking I'm a squid, it's helpless. I run through my advice. One last time. Number one, make a friend. Number two. Don't take yourself too seriously. Number three, take a risk and reap the rewards. I want to thank John destiny. Aja Gardner Justin, Reba, Tara, and Alondra for helping me out of my freshman year.

Right. My three advisers, Mr. Delay, Ray Ray, and brother Joe,

as well as my unofficial advisors throughout the years, Mr. Quigley and Dr. Palmer, the Dean's team for having a sense of humor. Mm my Perkins boys forever and always as well as my new family and Ames. Lastly, my mom and dad, and of course. Seniors faculty and staff.

 Ever heard the phrase, if it's nice, do it twice. Probably not because it's a Caribbean thing, but you get the gist of what? I mean, my parents, however, took it to the next level with our family because of my dad's job. We moved from Antiga to Dominika. Dominika to Grenada, Grenada to St. Lucia, then back to Dominika again.

No, I'm in Byfield

constantly hopping from one Island to the other islands, made social relationships difficult. Not only was I always the new kid, but in each place, I felt like an outsider because of my unconventional opinions and thinking my brain to creative, thinking to a whole new level, I challenged everyone's opinions and in discussions.

Always wanting to find out why. Yes, I was the annoying nerd child. They should have just named me why Wyan instead of Keon.

That's also part of the reason I didn't have a swarm of friends too annoying.

Resulting from my nomadic lifestyle for the first 16 years of my life, I had never had a best friend for more than a year or two. And I had to learn how to deal with my problems on my own. This has made it a bit difficult to trust and to have relationships throughout my life. Since everything always feels temporary.

It didn't feel like I belong to any one group of friends for the majority of my high school experience. Simply because friendships take time. At least the genuine valuable ones take time. And with all this moving. I never seemed to have the time to cultivate such friendships. And I was not going to waste my energy being okay.

As senior year unfolds. I mentally preparing myself for the fact that once again, I am going to be displaced. This wild card will forever be a part of my deck. I've learned to embrace being uncomfortable to the point where I don't feel comfortable anywhere in the world at all. It's always one extreme to the next with Keon.

Life has a way of dealing us wildcards that we can't prepare for. There's always at least one card that you simply don't know what to do with what to do with or how to use it. But alas, okay. Whoever is dealing these cards could really give it arrests. No. They're having way too much fun, especially with my hand, living in five countries and attending four high schools was definitely not part of the dreams that seven year old Kian, Oh God, seven year old Kian.

I'd heard multiple exciting stories from her parents. And the grandparents about the deadly hurricane David of 1979 and hoped quite foolishly, actually that she would be able to one day tell her children of her own experiences on the night of September 18, 2017. She got her wish granted.

I couldn't hear the chatter in the background anymore. It wasn't because it was nighttime. And I forgot to turn on the lights. And I swear to God I was wearing my glasses. It was because we had no electricity on the deafeningly load. Animalistic grows, hoes and cries, Blair dos, all other noises. My family members were mimes, molting words.

I couldn't tell the radio was inaudible and I literally could not see outside. I checked my watch. Just five more minutes before we received an update from the material logical service, I put it up the volume to the max and strained my ears to listen to the 9:00 PM advisory, calling the rest of my family to listen for the first time in an hour.

We stopped sweeping water out of the house. Tears spilled, rolled, rushed down the faces of my sister and I, when we heard it category two, hurricane Maria, who was a tropical storm a few hours ago was going to hit Dominico as a category five.

my small Island, 751 square kilometers was about to be obliterated by the first category five hurricane in 50 years.

My initial excitement to experience a hurricane became fair. The expected 90 mile per hour and incoming 180 mile per hour winds. We're on opposite ends of the spectrum trees, tree branches, rocks, and other debris sailed through the air. Flying at over windows, one hits a window so hard that the glass shattered.

I know a dining table was no soaking, wet and filled with shards of broken glass. A piece of wood could metamorphose into a missile and decapitate anyone of us at any second. So we all rushed into the bedroom at the far end of the house nail by nail galvanized roofs sheets were being ripped off of hoses.

Was that all our roof or was it a piece of someone else's host? I was scraping the walls outside. We stayed up for hours, listening, waiting for this demonic spirits to leave or Island as the water began pouring into the host, moving from room to room.

Okay. It felt like I had been awake for days. It was only us females. My mom, my grandmother, my mother's mom, my sister and I, I wished that my dad could have been with us, but he had to buy two less storm, a loan with his mom, my 84 year old grandmother who had no one to stay with her.

At some point after tossing turning tears and many pres I fell asleep, but when I woke up and went outside, I had to pinch myself to confirm if I was really awake.

Trees not one was standing. The mountains were just a creative arrangement of sticks with no branches, the once green mountains or Broan and looked like they were consumed by fire. Someone had taken slash and burn way too far. You could see where landslides had occurred during the night indicated by the lights of bro and patches and the ones beautiful blue sea was Broan and Laden with lumber from hoses and trees.

White.  my country. My home was stripped.

this wild card though. It brought me the most pain was a great teacher. Going to school without a roof in some sections, living without electricity or clean running water. And with food in short supply has made me aware of what is important and essential for life. This experience has her moved me. Making me grateful.

I am probably one of the few in this room that have experienced a category five hurricane, but I do know that every player in the game has their own wild cards. We just have to learn how to play with the hand. We are dealt and embrace the unpredictable.

Call it luck call it blessings. Somehow I came to realize that my shuffler, he knew what he was doing at age 10. My dream was to go to boarding school, just like the O'Sullivan twins characters from a novel series. I was reading at the time. However, my fantasy of attending a boarding school was as realistic as the Boston red Sox winning the most recent world series championships.

Just wasn't going to happen. Sorry guys. However, five years later, one afternoon. After an unexpected meeting with my mom's friend, Miko Pasco, I learned that I was actually going to be able to check off an item on my bucket list, going to boarding school. And so I began my search best boarding schools with Chuck.

Yup. That's exactly what I looked up.

I researched and made my list of schools that I wanted to go to. My advisor made his list as well. And cautioned me if you want, you can try. I mean, my chances of attending. The oldest sporting school in America in the middle of Antarctica. I mean, new England, we're small, but I carried a small bit of hope.

my presence here upon this podium is the manifestation of this hope. And of course my hard work. However I was unprepared and there was so much that I didn't expect here. I'd Gov's people considered 70 degrees, Fahrenheit hot, and even when temperatures dropped all the way to 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Girls were wearing skirts and dresses.

My initial excitement to experience snow for the first time, turn into horror and fail that I would have to cut my toe off from hypothermia in the first week of winter. If I was wearing a winter jacket. In the fall, what would I do once winter came.

Good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening. No response. No one answered my greetings. When I entered the room, not even my teachers was I speaking that softly. These unmannerly people. I Gov's. I noticed that cheese pizza on cucumbers was considered lunch called cereal was a part of ne breakfast, lunch, and dinner.

And you couldn't wear blue jeans to school. What upside down society was this? Yes. And the people went to bed at 10:00 PM. I was bad Lee halfway through my homework at that point, looking back, maybe if I didn't go back to Paris to take a nap during my free blocks. I could have gotten some homework done and would not have had to sprint to frost afterward because I snooze my alarm.

Sorry, Mr. Ogden.

I didn't ask for a nomadic life. And I never thought that I would actually experience a cat five hurricane in my lifetime who knew I spent two years of high school in Antarctica. Sometimes you get to choose the life that you live. Other times, life chooses you. How you manipulate and master your wild cards, determines if you're going to be an average player or a skillful player, welcome the unpredictable and find out okay.

 If you were to look at a photograph of me taken at the age of six, you wouldn't notice anything different about me from any other six-year-old girl. I have long blonde hair, much lighter than it is now. And we're a big smile. And every picture of me taken. At the age of six, I could sing every lyric to every song on the backyard against television show.

By heart. I had a red bucket filled with my little pony dolls, which my younger sister, Sarah and I would play with each day washing and combing their hair and placing them in their pink toy castle. When we weren't playing with the ponies, Sarah and I would engage in elaborate games of pretend with us, acting out the roles of different characters from our imaginations.

Sarah and I could play for hours and hours when we were together, the two of us always had a very close relationship. Everything was fine at home, but at school I struggled to make friends and fit in. I was awkward around my peers and I struggled in social situations. Some days I'd spend recess all alone with no one to play with.

I couldn't make eye contact with others during conversations. And I struggled at times to understand sarcasm. I lacked significant coordination skills as well. I couldn't eat with a fork and knife or hold a pencil correctly. My gait was altered when I'd walked, preventing my arms and legs from swinging in correspondence with each other.

It was difficult for me to walk up and down staircases. I never had any awareness of objects in my path. And as a result, I would constantly trip and fall. There was one behavior. However, that caused me to stand out amongst my peers. Most of all, I struggled with anxiety and for that reason, it didn't take much for someone to drive me to a state of frustration.

While frustration is an emotion that everyone experiences, my frustration would grow and evolve inside me to the point where I would lose any power to hold it inside. I would burst out screaming and crying hysterically in school, cleaning a scene in front of the other kindergartners. And my classroom teacher would contact a special education teacher to come and assist me.

They'd restrain me by my arms to prevent me from lashing out. I tried desperately to escape their grasp, but eventually give up as I was dragged to the special education classroom down the hall. From there, I would be coached to calm down through strategies that just taking deep breaths and counting backwards from 10, but this kind of coaching would only frustrate me further.

I would often be punished in school for this kind of behavior yet being punished for my meltdowns always felt like an injustice to me. I was never intending to disrupt class or place anyone in danger. My meltdowns were something I had no control over. My aggravation would bubble up inside me to such an extent where I would lose any ability to control, contain my emotions inside.

My parents felt the injustice that I felt and realized there must be a reason for my outbursts, other than a desire to misbehave. It was during March of 2008 that my mother dropped me to the doctor to take a neuropsychiatric assessment. I can recall to this day, walking down the hallway, lined with large glass windows, to the testing room, fluffy white unicorn on a stick and hint oblivious to why I needed to take an exam.

When my parents informed me at the age of six, I had been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome. I had no understanding of what that meant. They explained to me that it is a condition on the autism spectrum and connected it to the various symptoms I possessed. Soon. My parents began purchasing picture books.

For me that covered the variety of symptoms experienced by different people with the condition

as someone who was diagnosed so young, I didn't have any pre-established outlook on the disorder or knowledge of the stereotypes and stigmas attached to it. For this reason, I never saw anything wrong with the thought of sharing this piece of my identity with others. But I was quickly taught by the special education department at my school.

I was quickly taught by the special education department that I miss school, that this was a secret. I must keep to myself. This idea was reinforced to me that keeping my diagnosis private would protect me against bullying or medical and allow me to be accepted and make more friends. Well, my teacher's intent was like we in the right place, the advice taught me that my diagnosis was something I should be ashamed of something others wouldn't accept.

At one point in time, my diagnosis had been nothing more than a meaningless label placed on me, but soon that same label became my deepest insecurity in my head. I was a freak, some sort of alien. Soon the terms Asperger's syndrome and high functioning, autism represented everything. I desperately wanted to change about myself out of a desire to conform.

It became my greatest priority in life from kindergarten on to conceal this side of myself in the eyes of others. As I progressed through the grade levels in elementary school, I grew better and better at masking my differences. I made eye contact. I stopped melting down in public. The older I grew, the easier it became for me to communicate with others and form friendships.

By the time I reached middle school, I was receiving very little support from the special education department. As my parents and teachers felt it was no longer necessary. I went through each school. They like all the other kids with no assistance. Other than occasional meetings with the school counselor, my symptoms were no longer as apparent to those who weren't aware of my diagnosis as they had once been.

But when I broke him a mirror, I'd still see a freak in the reflection. I told myself that if any of my current friends from school moved my secret, they'd see me as a freak too. No matter how well I was able to improve my social skills and mask my differences. I always believed there was something terribly wrong with me.

On some days I didn't even feel like a human being. And during high school here at gov was like a fresh start. I had the opportunity to reinvent myself within a community that had no knowledge of my past. No one would have any suspicion that there was anything different about me. But it seemed that the better I grew at hiding my secrets in the world, the more insecure I grew on the inside in therapy, I'd always asked the same question.

If you weren't already aware that I'm autistic, would you be able to tell by knowing me, my therapist would always answer no, and I never believed them. I doubted my own self-awareness and ability to actually see that I was acting differently. This led to increase insecurity surrounding my disorder.

Today, my Asperger's syndrome doesn't affect me as severely as it once did, but still plays a significant role in my everyday life. It's no secret that I'm not the most extroverted person. My social anxiety has always been present in my everyday life for as long as I can remember actions. So just speaking up in class, asking someone to hang out, even saying hi to someone, I don't know very well on the way to class evoke anxiety for me.

In some ways I hide behind my introversion to prevent myself in the possibility of making a mistake and allowing my social awkwardness to shine through my coordination is an issue too. For one, my gait is still altered. When I walk with my arms and legs, moving out of sync with each other, something, my friends who are unaware of my diagnosis have always joked at me about where I walked with a friend on the path.

I walked towards the middle rather than staying to my side sometimes first and then off of the path without realizing I still can't bring myself to hold a fork and knife or a pencil correctly. And I still chip over everything with no awareness of what's on the ground in front of me. Worst of all. I have no natural instinct to catch myself.

So when I fall, I fall hard. I'd like to be able to tell you that I've learned to accept myself and overcome my insecurity and that I stand before you today with complete confidence, but that would be a lie learning to accept myself. The way I am is something I'm still working on standing in front of 500 of you today, confining something so personal and all of you is petrifying.

If I went back in time and told freshmen, Sophia Waldmann, that's three years from now, she'd be opening up to her entire school about her autism diagnosis. She told me I was insane. My diagnosis is something that has haunted me for the majority of my life today. I am facing my biggest fear head on, but this is something I need to do for myself.

If there's anything spending most of my life trying so hard to conceal the side of myself and others has taught me, is that hiding from the world only allows my shame to grow. In three days, I'll be a legal adult reflecting on my childhood. I realized I spent almost the entirety of it, unable to love and accept myself for who I am.

But by finally opening up about this side of myself, I hope to move away from the insecurities in my past and towards a future where I can finally look at myself in the mirror and love the girl and the reflection, my whole life. I've grown up believing that I have a problem that I'm broken and need fixing, but also is not a disease.

It doesn't need to be cured. It's just a different way of thinking and there's nothing inherently wrong with that. My autism has had positive effects on my life as well. One chase commonly associated with those on the high functioning end of the autism spectrum is investment in a special interest. Many of those were the diagnosis will focus exclusively on one area of passion with the ability to dedicate an extensive amount of time towards a single subject.

For me, this description never quite fit. I was still giving the gift of the ability to focus intensely, but I could apply that to many areas of interest. My long attention span and interest in many areas have helped me succeed in school subjects. I enjoy over the years, my autism was also gifted me with a photographic memory.

I've always been especially skilled and memorizing patterns and numbers, which has also helped me through my academic studies. I am gifted with the ability to reference specific words and details of conversations months and even years later, which certainly helps during arguments with people throughout my childhood.

The intervention I received, uh, taught me to constantly analyze every conversation and social interaction I participated in today. My experience in analyzing social situations helps me to be a good friend. The autism spectrum is difficult for many people to fully understand, because it is so vast. It's difficult to make generalizing statements about those on the spectrum for the range of symptoms of the disorder and the severity of these symptoms vary so much from person to person, a famous quote within the autism community is if you've met one person with autism, you've met one person with autism.

Everyone on the autism spectrum, however, is the same in the fact that we are all human beings who experience emotions, just like any other human being, our difficulty falls in how we are able to express those emotions. A common misconception about those with autism spectrum disorder is that we have been denied the ability to experience empathy and love.

Speaking from experience. I can confirm that this belief couldn't be more false. I cannot express to you in words, how much I love and care about my parents, my brother and sister, and my close friends. Every one of you in this crowd is a unique individual. If we all saw it and acted exactly the same life, wouldn't be worth living.

We all have the aspects of ourselves that make us unique. You are a different person from everyone else in this room, and that's what makes us all alike. We are like in the fact that we are different instead of allowing our differences to drive us apart, we need to learn to embrace those differences together.

Thank you.

If you ask me the right questions, I'm an open book. If you ask me about my freshman year, I'll tell you how every one of my teachers. I was going to sleep in my classes like my brother. If you asked me about my sophomore year, I'll tell you probably almost failed Mr. Ogden's English class, because I refused to participate to make corrections to any of my in-class rights.

If you asked me about my junior year, I'll tell you that my alarm called each morning was McClain yelling. You have piggy piggy right below my window. If you ask about my advisor, I'll tell you that. Since freshman year, she has never failed to yell at me when I stay up until 3:00 AM another night in a row.

If you ask me about my roommate, I'll tell you that no matter how much I begged her to, she never wants killed a bug in our room for me. If you ask why you never see me around campus during the day, I'll tell you it's because I take, take knocks whenever I possibly. If you asked me about the stuffed animals in my dorm room, I'll tell you my favorite is the one wearing a scarf.

If you asked me about my biggest fear, I'll tell you it's the monsters that live under my bed. I like to think, but in the Gov's community, I'm an open book, but there's a difference between what I would like to think and what is actually true. There's one question that when I'm asked, I try to avoid giving an answer.

Honestly, only a handful of people on this campus know the whole story. Every quarter that I've been at Gaza's at least one teacher usually most have written in their comments, literally needs to participate more. She doesn't ask questions or speak up during discussions. And although it was one of the most amazing humans on this earth, Sue is outfall for these comments.

A few weeks into German one, we were learning how to say family members, because each person in my class went around and listed all the people that live in their homes. If I only got to my turn, so I did what I was supposed to. I was in my mom and my brother. I looked up at sooth and he just sat there waiting for me to continue.

He looked as if I had just left him on a massive. He assumed I forgot the words. So he asked dad, I replied, now this is the moment all my classmates turned off. Their phones worked up from their computers and we're all staring at me. I've never realized how quickly I can make a room go silent until I had to say that I don't have a dad to all of arrives when Moody's waiting to be filmed, Hollywood producers would start mine with me as a.

They would show the struggles of a single mother who works a full-time job while raising two kids. The next couple of scenes will be set in middle school and high school where it seems would switch from happy little moments, such as meeting my best friends to some less happy moments like failing a test.

The next part of my movie would be all about my identity. Isn't it. Starting a family getting my dream job and answering all the harder questions in life. The final part is where the producers would make a cliche. They would end it how every movie about someone growing up without a dad and the main character tracks on my dad finds the house, takes a deep breath knocks on the door and says a whole speech about how they had to learn to survive without a fall.

After the whole inclusion snitches done, they walk off and the credits roll. So this was the end of my movie, rather than a cliche speech. This is the cliche letter I would added. Dear dad. I want to believe that if you knew me, you would have. I always imagined searching for you and the sea of cameras on my first recital, while I stood on stage wearing my super itchy black and white checkered leotards complete with a sunflower, has I imagined standing on your weather shoes, working up into your eyes, your hands wrapped around mine while we swayed back and forth a father-daughter dance.

I imagined running around the backyard, having Nerf gun wars with you and max, while mom watered all the flowers we planted the weekend before I imagined you teaching me how to ride my bike. I always dreamed of you waking me up to the smell of mom's blueberry pancakes that seemed to warm every corner of the house on a Sunday morning, I wanted to fall into your arms after my first Hartford.

Home is not a place. It is not the furniture that fills a room for the pain that is slowly fading from the sunlight pouring through the windows. Home is the framed photos covering those walls and the blankets that feel the emptiness of your bed. When you leave in the morning, it's the worn out raggedy, stuffed animals out on a chair in the corner.

It's the sound of the word crackling and the fireplace. While you watch a movie, it's the smell of grandma's warm chocolate chip cookies. It's a sound of the doorbell ringing and it's the bench for toy soldiers and Legos. Home is comfort and protection. It is found in the smile of your friends. Home can be heard when you make someone laugh, almost found in people.

The bond between a widdle go on her father, as long as it comes close to nine in comparison, every father is there will girls here out, if that's true, then for 17 years I've been homeless. So we're a little girl. Her father is her home. I've never liked talking about you to my friends. Not because it hurts, but because I love to know the answer.

I love knowing the outcome of something before it happens with you. I've never had that for 17 years. You've been the only question I don't have an answer to. I always heard people talk about how they other mother's eyes or their father's nose. But for me, I have my mom's everything. She's the only comparison I have.

The one thing I know I got from you was your consistency. For 17 years without fail, you remain invisible in our family photos. Your consistency saw me to be a giver and to be a home to others. Your consistency has pushed me to show up for others. Your consistency is the reason I put everyone's needs before mine.

Your consistency is why I show up, especially when I don't feel like. 'cause I know an artist is, or those, we need a home to return to the most. I don't want to confuse you. I want you to know that I'm happy and I genuinely hope you are too. It took me many years or with a lot of times I taught myself to release that burden and I've allowed myself to be at peace with your absence.

I found shelter in so many people and. So as I conclude this letter, I want you to know your absence is the cause and effect of each and everything that I have found a Homeland. I'm not a little girl anymore. I don't need a hero to come save me. Sincerely. The girl who will never send this. Thank you.

This is a quick disclosure for a lame. I'm not going to make everyone cry. Like you told me to some days your friends can't give you 100% and some days you can't give yourself a hundred. I've learned what matters is surround myself with people who deserve me, not people who bring me down. When I sat in the back of chapel my freshman year, I thought I would be up here talking about how I solved all my issues with the song, the way life goes playing in the background.

However, there are some things you never over. And one of the first sentences of my freshmen letter, I asked myself, is she still alive? Referencing the struggles? My sister went there and the trauma, it brought me because of physical and verbal abuse from her as a result of her mental illnesses. This has caused me to experience dissociation most days, which means I feel like I'm in a fog and not completely present very often.

My freshman year, I greatly struggled with anxiety and I still do so earlier this year, one of my best friends told me to write out. Thoughts I have during an anxiety attack to help me control them. So I did, I filled the entire page with spiraling thoughts and a jumble of arrows. The best way to describe what this is like for me is to share some of the thoughts.

First, it starts with my mind repeatedly thinking about outcomes. Then I get anxious about being anxious. So I talked to someone, but then I get anxious that they think I'm crazy. So then I apologize. But I get scared. The Mexican more crazy I'm naturally stubborn. So another arrow goes off to say, I'm so stubborn.

I can't calm down. And I feel like everything is ending. Then I get upset that I wasted time and I get anxious that I ruined everything, which waste more time. And then I feel like I had no time. Then I started to hate myself for wasting time and being crazy and starting all this sinking. Keep in mind that this is all just a small fraction of what I wrote on.

No. When my friend did it, she only wrote three sentences after the exercise. She noted jokingly, Kira, if we do this while you're actually having an anxiety attack, we're going to need a whole poster board. You're the poster child for anxiety. So at the end of the paper I wrote when it is over, I remember that is all going to be okay.

And this is just a small moment in time and progress is not like. Doing this exercise made me realize that I do overthink more than the average person, but this opened my eyes and I began working on my anxiety to make it better. I've gone through many hardships more than I'm willing to share, but I am better.

I could see how far I've come since writing my freshmen letter. When I made the decision to get a tattoo of my grandma's dog Cassie's birthday this year, because CAS has been the only permanent thing in my life since I was born. The tattoo is placed on my head because that is arrest scars there. And it reminds me every day of how far I've come and that I deserve better for myself, finding ways to distract myself and finding people and dogs that pushed me to be better.

And to put things in my past have helped me my whole life. I've never thought about deserving the best. I always thought I deserved whatever bad things came my way, because I just saw myself as someone who struggled with depression so much that I can't even get out of bed. So. It's hard to express the thoughts going through my head on these days, but I'm sure some of you can imagine it sort of feels like I'm stuck in a dark foggy box and concealed window of light.

I can't quite reach it this past year. I thought a lot about the friendships I messed up because I cared too much and obsessed over little issues that didn't even matter. And if you are one of those friends, I'm sorry. However I have changed, although there are mistakes and struggles I still have yet to get over.

I have learned that I need to stop caring too much. And I've also learned that I can't force things and if they need to be forced, then they aren't meant to be. I've always struggled with having too much love to give and giving it to the wrong people. So this year I wrote on my mirror user better because I do for myself and for my friends that deserve the best version of me.

I still do have hard days that I don't want to be here, but every day is a new day. And when given time, some things do work themselves out. So although there isn't a magical cure for all of your issues, please keep in mind. Everything is going to be okay.

I used to see life as a tight rope stretched infinitely before. As if one misstep could send me hurdling off into the murky depths below, and I would obsess about everything and the possible consequences of anything that I did until I got older and realized that that tight rope is only two feet off the ground.

And I don't even remember much about the first chapel talk I ever saw. But one thing I remember thinking really clearly was. You could not pay me to go up there and talk to that group of people, but well, something has clearly changed and I'm not the same person. I was three years ago. Those of you who've known me for that long can probably get test to that.

And I can still remember making what I thought was going to be the biggest decision of my high school career, which was to run for freshman class vice versa. And most of you probably don't even remember when this happened or if it happened at all, but all summarized really quickly. I went up on the podium on the day of the class election speeches, and I proceeded to give what was possibly the worst performance of my life.

I stuttered, forgot words, and spoke completely devoid of emotion. Honestly, it probably would have been more memorable and more funny if I just fallen off the stage. And at the time I was beyond humiliated, how could I fail so badly in front of that many people, but over time I realized that I had fun doing it.

And those few brief moments up on that stage made me fall in love with the art of performing and theater. And I never would have found that out about myself. If I had an embarrassed myself in front of the whole freshmen class with a spiritless class election speech, and I invite you all to take a few moments to reflect on all the ways you've changed, whether good or bad, because sometimes I still think about the kid who resigned himself to a lifetime of walking on tight ropes.

And I think he would be proud of. Thank you. .

I want to begin by confessing to a lie to the many people that asked me earlier this year, what my chapel talk was going to be about to whom I replied. It's probably going to be about me. I love. Instead today. I want to tell you about the beautiful people who helped me grow every day. So in order to show you the impact that cam Willie Riley, Mollica, and Kelly have all had on me, I'm going to ask each of them one by one to read a statement that I've written for them that I believe encapsulates what makes them each so special.

So, cam can you begin by reading what you're paper.

I care greatly for the people around me, cam sets in your enormous capacity to care for others amazes me the way you jump up to help anyone you love without a single moment of hesitation does not go unnoticed with you. I've seen yourself in business and your generosity in tremendous amounts. You truly have a gift of giving that you present with.

Personally as a younger sibling, I grew, I grew up being the child that got more than I had to give. So giving never came naturally to me. My sister would always be the one to take the yellow game piece so that I could have the blue one. I see this in Yukon. You have shown me how rewarding it is to help the ones you love, time and time again.

You expressed to me that I have someone I can lean on without worry. I know it is a cliche to say that you give me the shirt off. But I'd be lying. If I said I don't have half your closet at my house right now, just through experiencing you. I am learning how to reciprocate your men are giving and I'm eternally grateful for that.

You truly had no how to make the people feel around you feel special, appreciated, and supported. I deeply admire this in you, and I really hope you realize the tremendous impact you've had on me every day with you. I am learning how to be a better friend, a stronger support system. And a person who gives back.

Thank you, cam.

Really? Can you read what your favorites I feel in love deep with, although I was strongly considering saying I have an enormous ego for Lily Shannon. I felt as though it didn't do her a measurable impact on me, justice, for those who really know Lily, Shannon you'll know that she isn't as hardcore and intimidating as she might have.

In all honesty, Willie is a total softie. I love the way you run up to me every day. Your arms outstretched chin tucked down to your chest. Just craving a big hug, your small gestures of affection. Show me how much you truly care. One moment. That will always stick with me that I don't even know if you remember.

It goes all the way back to the beginning of sophomore year during team prep camp for context at this time, Lily and I barely knew each other and we were only friends with. Our beds were on opposite sides of a long cabin filled with girls. I barely knew. And one night when I was sad and missing home, resting in my bed, thinking that nobody would notice my absence.

Only a few, few minutes later, I got a text from you just asking if I was okay, this truly reflects who you are as a person. You move through life, making sure others are okay. You make my heart happy because you constantly show me that you care. I have learned from you how to be a better person. Through loving and feeling deeply for those around me.

And I'm forever grateful for your presence in my life and how much I've been able to grow and learn for your love. Thank you.

Probably since I have meaningful and impactful conversations, Riley, you were one of the most complex and intriguing people I've ever met. You have such a unique quality of conversation with them that makes it extremely hard. Not to have endless talk. Little did I know at the beginning of this year, when we were sitting in the student center with each other for over an hour in silence, snapping and on our phones that soon enough I would realize I would never want to waste another second of time.

I have with you almost every time we talk, I learn something new about you. And I look forward to those moments every day from late night talks in the parking lot to lazy days at my house, I have truly realized that we will never run out of things to do. Talking with you has shown me how amazing it feels to be heard.

You have a way of making the people around you. It feels special just by your graceful way of listening. Although this might seem small. I want you to know how much I appreciate this in you. I admire this so much and I can only hope that I'm able to make the ones around me feel as heard as you were able to just through your presence.

I have been able to learn how to be a better listener and even more, a better friend. Thank you. I need the people around. You feel loved Mollica. I hope you know how much you make me smile from the way that you will run across the room to give me a hug to the way that you hold me. When I'm sad, I cannot thank you enough.

This year has not been easy, but you have always been there for me in every way possible. Reassuring me of your love through everything you do and everything you say, just when you sit with me and listened to me in a hard. You're able to make me feel so loved. I want you to know how appreciative I am of you.

The way you have always been my biggest cheerleader in volleyball, but even more in real life has shown me how good it feels to be around someone like you with you. I've been able to grow and learn how to express myself. My love for the people around me. And I'm so grateful for this gift you have given me every day is better when I'm able to make spicy.

Man. When the dining hall with you obnoxiously cheer on the sidelines. Getting into shenanigans with you and just be around you. Thank you, Monica Kelly. I am worthy of self-love and confidence. Pre-season and sophomore year I met you for the first time. I'm not even quite sure what our first interaction was, but I do remember extremely well returning to the soccer locker room that afternoon and telling the team that you were going to be one of my best friends.

I just knew it. And I could not be happier that I was. You truly have been my biggest supporter from day one. You constantly instilled confidence in me through your endless love and reassurance from the lunch period before a big test to volleyball tryouts. When I'm rambling on and on about my stress, you have always been the word Ben there to whisper the word confidence to me and give me a big hug.

I've learned from you that entering situations with confidence can completely change a negative outlook on life to a positive one. And just the change in attitude has helped me become a better person. Because of you. You've taught me the importance of putting my own happiness. First. This is one of the many reasons you are so special.

You shown your compassion through your relentless efforts to make me feel loved by you, but also by myself,

you have shown me that everyone is worthy of self love and confidence, and I'll always be there to repeat that message right back to you. Okay.

You spread positivity and love contagiously in everyday. Hope to reflect that beautiful manner on the people. That's your on me. Thank you, Kelly.

Finally, I want to thank everyone that I've spoken to about this school and even greater in my whole life, because I believe that I grow and learn from every person I meet in every interaction that. I believe that everyone creates their own impact. I believe that every single one of you is capable and worthy of self-love confidence, feeling deeply caring about the people around you, having impactful conversations, making the people around you feel loved.

Finally, I would like to echo the message of the song that played as you all walked in because in the end, I believe that we were all better together.

When I was a freshmen, I knew I wanted to do a chapel talk. I came up with over a dozen ideas. This was not one of them. I realized all those ideas I came up with were about me, my struggle with mental health, my learning disability, my health issues, my experience playing on a boys' football team. And while all those are important parts of me, they don't feel right because they're all about me.

One of my favorite childhood TV shows taught me one of the most important lessons I've ever learned. The secret of. People change people. So that's what I've decided to talk about. The people who've changed me and have helped me change myself. I told this story to a friend and her response was you should totally do a travel talk on that.

So thanks to the idea of you. My grandfather was an impressive man. He was a genius and I do not use that word lightly. He played baseball for the San Francisco giants back when they were the New York giants until 1950. He taught Willie Mays, his famous basket catch. And yes, you can look that up. He also had Parkinson's disease.

So he spent the last five or so years of his life downstairs on his favorite chair, almost always asleep, barely able to function in front of a tiny staticky TV that would give him a headache if I was near it for too long. And another thing about that TV, it was always playing baseball. Even if my grandfather was.

And every once in a while, my grandfather would partially wake up and listen to the crack of the ball against the bat. He would hear it and mumble line drive to left field or outfield we'll drop it. He'll get a double. And he was right. Every time we would wave our hands in front of his face, but he was never watching, only listening.

He also taught me baseball in the middle of the night and we had a routine. I never slept well and neither did he. So anytime I went to my grandparent's house, I'd stay up really late and wait for my parents to go to bed. I always knew I was good to go. When my dad came in to check on me and my sisters before he he'd go to bed.

After I'd heard his door close, I tiptoed downstairs to where my grandfather was in his chair. He had two canes, a three-pronged one and a single. I gave him the three-pronged one and I use the single pronged one as my makeshift baseball bat, again, to position with the cane over my shoulder. And he poked me in the hips and butt and correct my stance.

He'd always say, you're sitting in the chair, don't stick your butt out, girl. I fixed my stance. Watch the static ETV and wait for the pitch. Wait for it. And swing to this day. I'm still surprised I never broken. But my grandfather taught me a whole lot more than baseball. He taught me how to find a connection between myself and others, even when I barely knew him, but I've been changed by many more people than just my grandfather.

My teachers in particular have a strong influence on my life because they can make or break the way I see the world. The reason for that is because I have a learning disability, long story short, I have a hard time processing things and a hard time paying attention, which makes school tricky to say. And while that does make me really frustrated.

I also think I can find creative ways to work around my disability. One way is to make sarcastic outlines. My freshman year, I had to write an essay on Beowulf forcing me. So I made one of my favorite outlines ever. The intro paragraph went like this interesting hook that makes readers think this essay will be interesting.

Make Mr. Sumi think I have a clue as to what. Go from very broad tomorrow, like moderately specific or whatever that means mentioned the book. Beowulf translated by Seamus Heaney. Oh, wow. Look how cool that is. They relate thesis, thesis thesis. Speaking of Sumi, I've heard people mention him in their chapter.

By describing his cold dead eyes

or how he ruined their grade. But I have a slightly different experience. It was my freshman year. I don't even remember the assignment, but I do remember that I hated it. I was hanging out with my friends upstairs in the PAC and I was complaining and low key, bad mouthing. That's when he walked into the room and said, and I quote, speak of the devil and here I am, I was mortified.

There was no escaping this. All my friends just gave me the look that said, Hey, you're on your own. That being said, after semi finished what he was doing in the PAC, he sat down and helped me with the assignment. I think I gotta be. It was creative solutions like that. Along with teachers who care that helped make help me make school tolerable, but changes don't just come from big things.

Sometimes it's the littlest things that make the biggest difference. Like English teachers telling me that they're there for me, people. He's my name. When they say hi around campus math teachers who don't question me or judge me when I'm running out of the room. Spanish teachers who never hesitate to give me a hug, then proceed to scold me for overthinking everything, deans, who make sure that I'm aware that when things in my life go wrong, they want to help deans who call me out on my BS when I'm letting myself wallow in my own negativity for months, dining hall staff who know me by name friends, dealing with the nicknames.

I give them such as Miho, which means my son in Spain. Dragon lady Sparky. And of course, wifey friends who are just willing to just stay on FaceTime with me while I do my homework, not to talk just to make sure I don't get too distracted, have a mental breakdown or fall asleep, little compliments on my makeup or outfit.

And when people let us out of chapel talks early, you're welcome.

I never wanted to go here. I was forced. I was forced to go here by my mom who was Ms. Cass for all of you that don't know. And my dad, they said I have to get through one year. Then I can decide if I want. My feelings for the school were solidified by my first day classes I showed up at school. So my schedule said that I had a free block.

So, you know, I thought I started thinking maybe this place isn't so bad. I wanted around for about 10 minutes. Eventually made my way to the library. And as soon as I walked in, my mom, my mom said, what are you doing? And I proudly responded. I have a free block, little did I know that that day was a modified schedule.

I found out that I was about 15 minutes late to buy it with Ms. And then, so I had to go find room, went away in the math science building. And the first part of that mission was to find the math science building. I walked around campus, you know, I found, found the building. Then I had to find room 1 0 8 all the way on the other side.

And I opened every single door to every class in that building, asking if this is misuse class. So eventually I found it about 20 minutes late to my first class, which is a perfect. Next event was at lunch. I was going to put my dishes away. I took the corner too fast and I got bodied by Chris Ogden, my five foot three, 120 pound frames to no chance.

And I dropped my glass and it broke all over the floor. Luckily, no one really saw it happen. So I didn't get the round of applause, but Chris was nice enough to just say I got it and clean up for me. I made it through the rest of the school day, but I still had to go to JV football. I was terrified. I was in the library frantically trying to switch to third soccer so I could be with Christian and socket, but I had to soak one practice.

Everyone else had been to preseason. I had no gear. I was lost and I used to not know what to do. And the first drill Mr. McClain decided to put me at linebacker Cooper at running back. And my job was to stop him. I stood there. Coach blew the whistle and I didn't even move. And I just got completely. I went straight to the ground and half a second.

And then coach McClain said, do it again, but better.

So I got run over again, but this time I had the genius plan to grab his Jersey to try to take him down with me. And it, it sort of worked, but that was when I realized that football was not my sport. That's also when coach McClain decided that I was going to be alone. And for some reason I didn't quit football that year, nothing really got better and I hated it.

I hated it so much here that on October 10th, 2018 at 9:32 PM. I decided to write an essay about my hatred for this school.

Little did I know that this would not be the powerful note I gave to my parents to let me leave the school, but an embarrassing chapel talk three years later, I never knew what I wanted to talk about my chapel talk, but when I stumbled across this brilliant piece of literature, I knew that it needed to be shared with the whole school.

So just like how we get warnings before convocation, if it has intense themes, I'm going to issue a cringe warning to everyone. This is hard to listen. But so if you leave, if choose to leave, I don't blame you. The title of the document is Gov's sucks. The worst time of my life by Adam can 40th and I spelled my name wrong.

So in that document, I wrote, Gov's always flexes that they were created in 1760. They love the fact that they have been around so long and they like to stay true to tradition, but that could be the stupidest thing I've ever heard. If you're still doing something the same way for 255 years, things have to change everything in the world changes except the most important thing.

And how's the world ever going to get better if we're still teaching kids the same way as we were two and a half century. In the school house, what do you see? Rows of chairs and a person standing in the front talking and the same thing in all our modern classrooms. The worst four weeks of my life have been spent here at Gov's.

The only good times of value is when I'm not in classes or thinking about school. And my best times are sub-par. My one form of entertainment is ping pong and hanging out in the student center. And that's being stripped away from me because I'm failing my classes. And then I said, maybe it's the classes that are failing me.

So I like to take a second and think about that previous sentence. I said that the classes were failing me, but I was putting in no effort. And I was looking for something to put the blame on. Also being stripped away from me, referred to being put in the learning center during my free blocks so I could get my homework done.

So there was another part of this second part of the essay was. What I've learned this year is that no matter how good some school may be, everyone has a $61,000 tuition. It's still a school teaching you nothing but crap. There's no difference in the education between here and a public high school.

That's free to go to. So that line was applied to get my parents, let me switch schools. And I continued, I said, people at Gov's say that there's more free time and that people care about your grades and people care. But if they really cared for us our entire life, wouldn't be built around the stress around stress and fighting for an AE.

And I said fighting for an a, and I wasn't even trying at all. I was, I was not fighting for an a, I wasn't even trying for a C I wasn't trying for anything at all. And is this one last part? I said, what's the point of success if you're miserable. Hey, but at least I've memorized 15 vocab words that I'll never know.

And how could I live without knowing what the associate of Axiom of addition is? Free time at Gov's is not free time at all. I mean, if it were real free time, you wouldn't be shoved toward spending it doing more schoolwork. I'm always told if you finish your work during school, you want it to do it at home.

So great. You mean I can have three hours at home instead of two and these three of which I'm still stressing. And now the final least favorite sentence of this whole. I said, but Hey, if I'm dressed nice on the outside, at least people can't tell him as well on the inside, that's the worst thing I've ever written and it wasn't even true.

All right. So that's it. Everything I hated about Gov's and 401 words, some of you might be thinking what I did after I wrote it. And the answer is nothing. I wrote it for God about it, made it through the first quarter with an astonishing 2.1 GPA to my name. And in the three years since I've wrote that my life has improved drastically because of the learning center is able to get better study and homework habits.

I've also made friends to encourage that, encourage me to get better every day. So it gives me, it might be the best place for all of you, but you should still put some effort in trying to make things the best that they can be. And since I believe that every good chapel talk ends in a cliche. For everyone who is struggling, how I did with hard work and time, everything can get better.

Thank you.

I believe that memories are the catalyst of existence. The road to Boston when driving in from 1 28 northbound highway is littered with memorable sites, slips of giggles comedy club, the advertisements of a Madonna shrine that I doubt many people visit that one orange dinosaur that used to be part of a miniature golf course.

Now sitting at top of mountain of concrete, watching the passing. Also on that highway is the hockey town, USA ice rink. If you can picture the sign, then you know what I'm talking about. Although in my mind it's a pirate playing hockey and I'm not sure where I got that idea. It's just not a pirate at all.

I love that sign because right behind it is the first place I ever called home. When my mom and I first moved down here from Canada, I was too, she was. And our apartment 34, he had a green sofa where I've listened to the song, Barbie girl, a hundred times a week. And it had a gas stove where my door is shaped.

SpaghettiOs would get reheated by my own personal chef. My mom days were spent at the market basket, buying blueberries or riding the train at square one mall. And in the summer we'd go to the zoo nights were spent in the apartment next door with my first ever. My mom took night classes at Salem state twice a week in order to get her master's degree.

During that time, I would go to that apartment 30, 60. I don't remember all that much and I can't recall her name, but I know she must've been nice and that she had a Disney princess plastic tea set that I was so super duper jealous of her mom would let us eat Scooby-Doo gummies and watch Nickelodeon and everything else that my mom wouldn't.

It was. We'd spend 12 hours a week playing games and singing and dressing up. And it was maybe the best time of my entire life. I think of them when I see that hockey town sign or watch the movie Nemo, thank you to the family and 30, 60 to you. I am grateful. My sister was born and we moved to Gloucester to be close to my dad.

This was more of an apartment block, just the three of us in a building rather than 300. There lived us, the twins who played the cello and the woman with the crazy. Someone was named Zander, but I'm not sure who across the street, whoever lived nine, a Dexter and their daughter, Susan, for a side note of context, I have no family in this country other than my parents and sister, no cousins, no grandparents, no uncles or aunts.

And so nine and Dexter became my grandparents in the way that Susan became my aunt Dexter showed me how to pick weeds and how to build a bird house. And when I was five, he died every time I see an arched fence, I think. The first person I ever knew to die. I don't remember much else except that he was the grandpa.

I never gone. Nine to however has shaped my life immensely every day from ages five to 10, I was across the street at 26 Riverview road. She had those needle point PennDOT pillows and a reclining chair. And for five years, she would always have a bag of milk, chocolate dub squares in her freezer. The ones with those little inspirational memes.

I think it was sometime in the first year that we decided to start rolling them into a ball. And it was bigger than my head. By the last time I saw her we'd call her cakes and dresses specifically my clearest and most bittersweet memory of her took place on a spring day, just before my eighth birthday, we were coloring my dream birthday cake.

And nine had told me that one day she decorated for me. I told her that that was the cake I wanted from my 16th birthday. For some reason I was obsessed with turning six. We pinky swore on it. And she put my drawing in a frame and hung it in her kitchen. She was 86 when she made me this promise. And 90, when she broke it on November 24th, 2014, the day that she finally got her dentures, Nana died in her sleep.

This woman was with me for some of the biggest moments of my life up to that point. And then she was gone and she'd never make me my birthday. I think about it every time I see those soft mints or watch MTV music or see a plastic spider, I think about her a lot and how happy she made me. Thank you. And I'm grateful.

I think it's important that we talk about the people in our lives that we will never see again, because some of them, we will never forget the things people do and say, leave an impact on you. And I'm curious as to what mine might be, what reminds people with me? How do they feel when they think. I hear a song.

And I think of Teagan from middle school, I see a certain kind of lamppost and I'm taken back to the first grade with my friends, Nicholas and Meghan twistable Crayola pencils are Eliza. The girl who pulled my hair and called me mean names and cabbage patch dolls, and my little cousin momentos. They're what people, they're what keep people with us long after they are gone.

And I think that they're just an incredibly beautiful and human thing. I think.

 Good morning, everyone. Please join me in welcoming this morning's chapel speaker, Meg Cole.

my decision to come to Gov's was an unconventional one. Yes, of course. I wrote out a list of pros and cons as everyone's parents inevitably makes them do, but the basis of my decision was. More specifically the bookshelf located in frost in what used to be Mrs. Ham of it's classroom. Now that is not what my parents wanted to hear.

When I explained to them why I was transferring to a boarding school 100 miles away from home three years ago, I found myself walking the pathways at Gov's in that awkward silence with my revisit day host well on our way to one of her class. Nothing. And I mean, nothing could have prepared me for what I was getting myself into.

When I took a seat at a desk in the corner of Mrs.  11th grade English class. I don't remember much, which I mostly chalk up to the nerves and her random screens. But I do remember the wooden bookshelf that spread along the left wall of the classroom. I took note of its disarray. So I'm books laid flat while others stood tall alongside one another, but not one was perfectly placed or categorized by any means.

I found comfort in its disorder. It proved to me that Gov's was not defined by conformity, but by its unorthodox ensemble and inclusion of a wide variety of stories. This message resonated with me as I was not looking to conform to some unreasonably. However, this moment proved to me that Gov's wasn't expecting me to do so they were willing to take what I had to give and nonetheless fit me into their narrative.

I knew that soon enough, this bookshelf would house my next book. As I began a new story at NGOs in order to find its place a top, the slanted wooden shelf, I must first arrange all of the stories that have come before. All the stories that speak a different truth and a different lesson learned where better to start than my little hometown and Henniker New Hampshire population, 5,000, the only one on earth, they'll say for 14 years, I was raised in a small white building in the center of town home to preschool through eighth grade, the floor levels separated us into our respective grades.

The ground floor house. pre-K the second floor elementary school and the third floor middle school, as you can imagine, it was a great race for the top and oh, how badly we wanted to climb those floors. But for the making of my first book in this series, my story begins through the big red doors on the ground floor.

Preschool here is where I will write about my first. My lifelong friends that pop in and out of every chapter, but nonetheless make their presence known together. We took on all the adventures, a six-year-old would, you know, the typical taste testing of different glues and chasing each other around the classroom and everything in between.

As I reflect on these moments, now they may seem minuscule. In retrospect, however, derived from these seemingly innocent moments is. By definition to be loyal is to give or show from and constant support to a person or an institution. Not only did these innocent beginnings instill a sense of loyalty between one another, but taught us the importance of loyalty in all aspects of life.

In particular, the loyalty to our hometown and the relationships. It is false. As I turn the page, the next chapter begins while I make my ascent up the floors of that small white building with me. I carry my backpack, a few notebooks and the relationships I developed in a previous chapters on the second floor is where I learned the importance of relationships with my peers and my.

Based on my new found understanding of royalty, I was able to establish meaningful connections with the students. I was growing up alongside being in a class of 35. There was no room to hide. This meant that in order to succeed, I had to establish myself as a member of the community and develop a sincere relationship with the peers around me.

Having a consistent seat at the table, taught me the value and understanding. Though we all called small town, Henniker home. We each contributed our own perspective to each other's identity, a new lens to look through, so to speak. Now this was news to me as events, sixth grader, to my surprise, there was more to my peer story than Henniker.

How weird I thought to myself, how weird is it that the kids I'd grown up with have different experiences that make up their new. Now in hindsight, this was my first time realizing how small my world was reflecting on that moment. Now I felt so confined by the environment I was in yet. So grateful for the opportunities it had presented me

as this chapter progresses to the third floor of that small white building. It is there that I begin to recognize and value the impact my small town has had on my care. While simultaneously wanting more than it has the capacity to give. I crave something more, something different, something bigger, but I lacked the courage to pursue these feelings.

I felt disloyal to my hometown for wanting something bigger when it had already given me so much, as much as I'd love to be the hero and save the day and tell you all that. I held my ground and defended my decision to stay. I can't. I stayed. And I watched my growth become stagnant because of it. I was restricted by the boundaries of my hometown, but to no fault of its own, I was restricted because I was too fearful to be different too fearful to stand out as the one who left Hannukah I remained complacent for the two years to follow until I mustered up the courage to leave as these chapters progress through those two years.

I gained the confidence to advocate for a bigger world, a world in which I sought out more opportunities to broaden my perspective. This landed me in the back of Mrs.  classroom, admiring that disorganized bookshelf that spread across the left wall of the classroom. The bookshelf in which now lies the story of my humble beginnings, titled an ode to my hometown alongside it is a work in progress.

The work of my time. Though this book has yet to be published. Of course, I will give you all a preview. This new story begins soon after I took that seat for the first time in frost, since then I have found everything at Gov's that my small town lacked. However, the lessons I learned in that small white building still hold true today.

This book opens in my first year when I was fortunate enough to integrate myself into a welcoming committee. The loyalty I had learned way back when allowed me to develop new relationships in a new environment. This is how I made new lifelong friends to accompany the ones who waited for me back home together.

We took on all the highs and all the lows, a never ending support system built upon a strong foundation of trust and loyalty. Not only did I develop new relationships with my peers, but my teachers. Given that my teachers extended their support beyond the classroom and onto the athletic field. I deeply value their mentorship and guidance throughout my three years on campus.

In particular, Ms. Block, who took a chance on a ragtag soccer defender, who admittedly did not know what offsides was and to Ms. McLean, who continues to keep me in my place with a simple eye roll and the tough love. I so desperately. These are just two examples of the rewarding relationships. I have been able to establish thanks to the community here at guns and my willingness to pursue at greater opportunities for myself.

Also for the first time I was surrounded by peers from different ethnic, cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds. This has been the greatest opportunity at Gov's has. Having the opportunity to establish connections and build relationships with students from different backgrounds and perspectives than myself contributed immensely to my identity.

I am now fulfilled with a wide variety of perspectives that are applicable to my identity inside and outside of the classroom. Furthering along through these chapters is both my second and third year at Gov's together. These two narratives. Intertwine to tell the story of the courage that my younger self lacked at the end of my first year at Gov's I made the decision to reclassify.

And just to clarify, yes, this means a fifth year of high school, and yes, this means a second junior year. Many of you are probably thinking I'm crazy for wanting to do so. And to be honest, I have the same thoughts from time to time. But having an extra year has been so rewarding in the betterment of myself, rather than looking at this opportunity as another year of AP classes and a whole lot of work.

I look at it as another year I get to spend as a member of the governor's community. This has allowed me to hold new leadership positions on campus and to not only build upon my existing relationships, but create new and meaningful ones. The accumulation of these small moments have all been the result of one big decision to seek more one big decision that took place in one small white building in one small hometown, a building in which I can always return to as I flipped through the pages of my past and continue to write more in the present as my book, and many others began to come to a close, I hope the authors of all choose to advocate for them.

And for their growth as they begin their next chapters. But for now, this imperfect work in progress will rest beside all the stories that have come before the stories that weave together to tell the story of Gov's and reside in the wooden bookshelf that spreads along the left wall of Ms.  classroom.

Thank you.

For those of you I have yet to meet my name is Hannah. Sometimes people mispronounce my name as. But the meaning of my name is important to me. So I make sure to correct them. My mom shows HANA meaning flower in Japanese and fittingly planted me in garden. This garden was magical to me. I spent the majority of my childhood chasing butterflies and climbing big rocks, pretending they were stages at three years old, I would stand by hydrogen.

And monitor them for hours, expecting them to grow right in front of me. As I overwatered, these hydrangeas water would stream down my driveway into my call to SAC. And through this street, I always said plenty of water, but I learned to jump in the puddles. It seemed like nothing to me then, but now that I'm older, I watched kids.

I babysit jump in puddles and playing. It's these moments in my childhood brought me such joy. And as I look back with the wisdom and perspective I have since gained, I find growth in moments that have fled me in presence, but remained ingrained in memory. Like most of you during points in my life, I've had to change an environment.

When I was in my freshman year of high school, the flower garden I had once loved became overgrown and. My mom, wasn't able to care for the garden. We had grown together unable to care for me and herself home became unsafe and I couldn't live where nothing would grow. So I moved on and I moved in with my father.

I found myself at Gubbs a few months later, and here I am just like humans, flowers need somewhere to take root. They need to be planted somewhere safe in order to throw. My favorite example of this is hydrangeas hydrangeas. Teach us that where we are planted matters. The hydrangea will change colors from pink purple, blue, or white when moved to different soil, just like hydrangeas, where I was planted mattered this summer, I flew across the country to Colorado, where I volunteered at a camp for adults and children with discipline.

There I met Mary and Mary was one of those people who lit up a room like sunshine. She had short brown hair and she always wore an abundance of Berets and bows. I adored this about her because when I was younger, I used to do the same, so I couldn't help, but introduce myself. As I sat down next to Mary, I learned that she was non-verbal.

She couldn't communicate with anyone. So we bonded over her color. Expressing my contentment. I started thrumming my fingers against the tabletop and humming to the sound of my taps. Mary's face lit up. As she realized we could communicate our happiness without words. She reciprocated my gestures and laughed with such joy.

The whole room stopped to admire her lap. Mary could not speak, but her smile always spoke. That summer Mary and I met on, went on many walks to pick wild flowers. We made a bouquet for our cabin and I saved these flowers. I pressed them in between the pages of a book and weeks after leaving camp, I read from the same book and the pressed flowers fell out of the pages immediately.

Memories of mountain ranges, showered with flowers, blooded all. I cherish these flowers. We picked together and I keep them in my room to remind me that just like Mary wild flowers thrive off what they're given. They always blossom and provide happiness to those who walk by and care enough to admire them.

Some flowers grow back every year, while others only stay around for one season in both situations, flowers, bloom, best when they are taking. When I was younger, I would admire flowers, but some of my friends would stomp on them. I didn't understand this because I would never stump on a flower. But what I realized is that some people will place harm upon you, even when you've done nothing wrong, just like nurturing a flower with enough strength, care, and attention, you will grow back and thrive.

If you have the intention to do. When experiencing traumas, personal failures or unhappiness, I think it's a measurably important to realize that what you need to survive is the will to grow. Despite what life has dealt you to have faith that the sun will rise again, just as it does every morning, spring will come and you will bloom just as you have before, just like flowers, YouTube will weather.

Last night, Mr. Juan and I had a conversation on the phone that lasted 21 minutes and 29 seconds. We discussed the speech I intended to give to you. What I had originally planned cannot happen. I agreed with him when he said, quote, it's not a chapel talk. It's something else. Today. I was prepared to drop the weight of the world on you.

I was going to drag you through the scenes of my past ones. I will forever be tormented in. I wrote 11 pages. I was going to do more than just speak this truth to you. I was going to mercilessly make you see every site, hear every sound, smell every stench, feel every touch that I have known these past 17 years.

All I wanted to do was open up. To share with those who love and hate me. What exactly was that they loved and hated in part, I was selfish in my writing. I could not recognize that the indifference I have toward all of my life story would not be shared. I forgot that I played these. In my head every night, but for you, it would have been a first, a major aspect of my speech of my life is sitting and waiting powerlessly today.

I almost made you all victims to those feelings. I almost turned you into my youngest. A victim who could do nothing, but sit in weight as he was crushed by the consequences of lacking the power to do anything today, I will not do that. Taking another quote from my conversation with Mr. Juan last night, I am exercising artistic discipline around a rhetorical performance of truth and.

That are very important yet very distant from everyone on campus. I wrote an autobiography of unimaginable suffering. Part of me still wants to read it deep down. I still want to share these truths with you. Part of it honestly comes from the fact that this is the one chance I have had in four years. To say anything about who I am.

All the lies this community has spread about me, all the lies this community has accepted regarding me fueled in a sense, a desire for retribution, a debt, a desire to prove to you again, as Mr. Wan put it that I am an impossible person in this process, there would be a lot of collateral damage. Too much sitting here, unable to run from my words may have driven this campus into a hole.

It could not escape. I have sacrificed a lot for truth and freedom, but I will not sacrifice you. However you can sacrifice yourself. If you'd like, you can read the original speech. I'm willing to share the document with whoever would like it. In fact, if enough of my friends want, I'm sure we might get together one night and I would read it to them.

If you are not my friend or they're someone who hates the fact that I am standing up here and speaking to you or someone who has heard about me most suck these something not entirely true. I would like you to know that I want you to have it as well. My words are not just meant for this campus and my friends, but the world in prioritizing the health and safety of future readers, I would like to now provide some trigger warnings and another one quote, headlines for what the text contains.

The primary triggers are sexual assault and molestation, domestic abuse, drug abuse, and alcoholism child. Family separation and overall unfathomable misery. I will go into the very rudimentary details right now to get somewhat of a gist of how these all relate to me across to you. I opened the text with the earliest memory.

I can recall a scene in which my mother is beaten by my younger brother's father at the beach. I then go into how I was molested by an older. All in the hopes of getting Legos. He stole from me back. I talk about an affair. My mother had, which resulted in an overnight immediate, effective, immediately effective divorce of her husband, this boyfriend she brought in, but then beat and raped her while I listened to it for months, I talk about my mother being consumed by alcohol instead of the other way.

I explained how I haven't seen my brothers in years after my mom lost custody of us. I described the portion of time. I lived in a house with no running water, gas, or electricity, and a diet heavily dependent on school lunches, peanut butter and bread. I don't actually mention my father. But mainly because I spent most of my time with him in the years, I was past what I would call childhood.

However, I will admit he is currently a positive force in my life. Right now. I read the contents of the speech in the text itself. You are there watching it all happen. You feel that sitting and. You feel that inability to do anything, but that is not all that I wrote. In fact, I will now read the turning point of the speech to you.

It includes a message, the dose to those who do not wish to hear one from me. And if you thank you's to those, I love, I don't include everyone that deserves a thank you. And then again, it was already 11 pages long for reference. I think my AP thesis paper was around 18. If you take away footnotes either way.

Here's what I had to say about my life through the lens of Gubbs I was going to be free, goes for a few weeks. In fact, I was, I didn't just feel free. I felt powerful. One night. I used that freedom, that power incorrectly. I made a mistake and I made someone feel powerless. That is something I never thought I would do or could do.

But regardless of how I saw it, regardless of what actually happened, the consequences stay the same. And I will forever be sorry for that. These words I have spoken. May never atone for what happened. I don't intend for them to do so. No words I say will ever change the mind of the many here who would rather be not, would rather not be listening to me right now.

I heard a friend I'm arrogant. I walk with my head up and chest out. I take space wherever I go. I never shut up. I'm quick with the rebuttal that might embarrass you in front of the whole. I call you out. I don't move out of your way. I, I understand too, you all of my actions make me the bad guy, but to me, you were the bad guys, too.

So many of you have said things about me have said things. So many of you have said things about me that are untrue. I can't even meet a new person. Or even outside of school, without them thinking they already know everything they need to about me. I can't even be excited about the college. I worked my ass off to get into, without someone trying to call me something I'm not online to me.

All you want to do is push me back into my past to take the little. I got from coming here. It almost got me too. I almost did end up leaving, hoping to find a new school to save me again. But I did it not because of some cliche reason, like your words, the words he spoke didn't bother me. Not because I thought my lack of leadership roles on my common app wouldn't hurt me, but because I realized where freedom and.

Really lied in the people at this moment. I'd like to recognize some of those people,

Adam Mack and Trey, you will never understand how much you three mean to me. Whenever I lay crying on the floor, which I sleep on. Overbreak I think about you three often because Adam texts fart and the group shot. The happiest moments in my life have spent been spent with you seriously. I mean, it, when I say I may have not lived to 17 without the support I got from you, boys, we do not say this enough to each other, but I love you, Kayla McLean, you know how you said your me just better?

I hope. Even though you have struggled in your own ways, these past few years, you have set that aside in order to keep me saying on campus, if you ever feel like there was nothing here for you. Remember that I am Alan David, Jacob, and Bach. One of the best things about boarding school is its ability to bring people from across the world together.

I am happy. It brought me to. Last year when you all weren't on campus, it wasn't right. I felt something was missing now that I have you for these last few months, I'd get, I hope we can make up the time we lost dry and pat, I never thought I'd get the opportunity to be someone others looked up to, but in you I found a chance.

Even though you are wild. I am hoping I can leave some of myself behind for you to leaders next year, Austin. I think you were the hardest worker I have ever met, even though you're mean on the mat. You have the kindest heart. I know. I cannot wait to see what it will do for. Natalie and Bruin, I would hate to have sisters, but if they were like U2, it might be a little fun.

I hope you haven't cried too much during this whole talk Xavier. I told you I would give you a shout out. Now you have to go win new England's this weekend, Michelle Ms. CAS. My mother, the lady who does still care about me would be at ease. Knowing I have been in your hands these past few years, Mr. Tejada, coach hunt, Eddie.

I usually don't say I have any role models, role models in my life. I feel like it dehumanizes people. It doesn't let them have their flaws. However, when I think of role model, I think of you three, there are many more people I would like to mention, but again, this is already 11 pages long. Still. I could not forget to think the one person who has truly gotten me through it all, Julie DeFillipo without you.

I may have never escaped my past with no obligation to him at all. You took a random kid out of the pits of poverty. And gave him the power and freedom to walk a path that would change the world. So I promise you, I will change the world. Finally, I turned my attention to whoever or whatever stands in my way in the future.

I have sat in waited far too much. I have been stripped of freedom and rendered powerless on most of my days. But today I recognize there was a difference inside me, a change to who I am and whoever and who I will forever be. As my final revelation, I deliver a warning. I will keep moving forward until my enemies and obstacles are.

Good morning, everyone. About four years ago at the end of my freshman year, I stood in this very spot and gave a chapel. And I remember when Mr. Wan reached out to me to deliver the talk I immediately said yes. And I immediately knew what I wanted to talk about. I was going to write it in about 20 minutes and I knew that I wanted to talk about coming to Gov's and what ways that I use to convince my parents to let me come here, who I was.

And what I had to say were just ideas on the tip of my. So senior year rolls around and signing up for a chapel talk was a no brainer. I love to talk and I love to be the center of attention. So of course I signed up and as the year went by, I pushed this talk aside. I felt that February was very far away and I was confident that eventually senior year would give me some sort of learning experience or topic that I could give to you all by the time February 9th rolled over.

So on February 8th, I began to get nervous. I had absolutely no idea what to say to you all because ultimately I have no idea who I am and I don't feel like I have any grounds to tell all of you some great lesson. How could a person know everything as a freshmen, but nothing as a senior. Although graduating from here and giving a chapel talk is definitely the end of a chapter for me.

It's certainly the only, only the beginning of my learning experience. So when I think about Gov's and how I could have arrived here, so incredibly concrete and how I can leave here lacking just that I think about how I have shaped my identity over the past few. And the overwhelming factor in molding me into who I am today is honestly a bit underwhelming and simple.

And it's the conversations that I've had. Every speech that I've given. And every time I've listened has shown me how to extend myself and grow beyond what is just in front of me, the first speech that I ever gave. However, it was my seventh grade year and I knew nothing about rhetoric or presentation, and I never even practiced my speech.

I couldn't deliver it because I didn't have it memorized. And the only problem with that was I couldn't read the paper in front of me because my hands were shaking so hard. So I ran out of my classroom and through my notes into the trial. But two years later, I remember sitting in PPS and watching the Marc Anthony speech and literally tearing up listening to it.

And that was the day that I really became fascinated with rhetoric and the way in which we craft words to induce emotions and other people, but it's not just speeches. However, it really is just simple, interactive. There are countless times where I've spent on the phone with Ella and Jillian that have taught me how to open up myself and how to be vulnerable and how to be willing to have great conversations.

And some of the most impactful ones that I've ever had have been just from sitting in any be with my ninth graders, as Ella tells me everything about her day and NILAH reads her PBS speech for me and Sophie reassures me that I probably shouldn't throw away and redo my art. And I think back to my ninth grade year and sitting in my proctors room and just talking and talking and talking, and those conversations were so pivotal to my Gov's experience and in figuring out who I wanted to be here at gloves.

And I hope that I give my ninth graders that same kind of opportunity. One conversation though, that I will truly, truly never forget. And that kind of takes the cake for me as my sophomore year on JB. And it was my first game ever. And we were playing at Middlesex. And to give you a little context about how good I am, I literally felt getting onto the ice.

I quickly recovered though and headed over to where I needed to be. As I timidly approached my spot and my opponent came up to me, looking very scary and a lot taller than me and came up to my ear. Do you want the smoke buddy? And I looked at her literally flabbergasted. I had no idea what to say. So I just said, no, thank you.

But eventually the puck dropped and we literally collided with each other and both fell and we made eye contact and we just began laughing a sort of mutual understanding that it really is not that serious. Some conversations are ridiculous and funny and forgetful, and some conversations are hard and nuanced and unshakeable.

There's no rhyme or reason to it who you are at the end of the day is not some concrete textbook definition. And you won't figure it out through some epiphany or single learning experience because you're constantly evolving through other people and the interactions that you have. So I might not have much of an answer for you all about my end of my time at Gov's or advice on how to be incredibly successful here.

But what I do know is that every day you have the opportunity to wake up and learn from other people and listen, and handle your words with care. So please use it. .

Before I was the most popular kid at Gov's back and fourth grade, I was just a short, chubby kid with a huge gap in between my middle. And horrible anger management skills. I was a kid with an abnormally high pitched voice. You scream saying to every song on the bus to, and from school. Despite the older kids telling me to shut up from this description alone, you can probably guess the I was bullied.

And let me tell you those first to fourth grade bullies or something. There wasn't an aspect of my life that they could not believe me for, for my clothes that were passed down from my older brother, my always busted shoes, my huge gap, my big protruding stomach, my high pitched voice and my skin color.

They would purposely tackle me when we played soccer during recess even cuts all over my legs. Those were just a few. I remember when I was by myself on the playground. And some kids came up to me and started picking on me. So I did what any kid with a short temper would do. I started screaming in anger and I threw mulch at them before I knew it.

I was somehow the one in trouble. The guidance counselor brought me in and didn't believe that I was the one getting picked on. I felt like no one was on my side. And so a girl named Morgan came into the counselor's office on her own and back my story, I looked at her in complete awe and didn't know what to say.

So I just cried. I was surprised because no one ever stood up for me before. So thank you, Morgan. You inspired me to stand up for others cause I know how it feels for someone to have your back. I know how it feels to fight your battles. And then to have the reassurance of a friend, I think we need more Morgans in the world.

So I to know how it feels to be the outcast, to be judged and excluded because you're different. I know that feeling, and I know that whole, that you feel trapped in because I've been there and I thought I'd never get out. When I was starting my high school application process, I joined a program that would match me with other.

And I worked so hard over the summer to try trying to get a good sat score and still I did poorly. And when I finally finally released, received the list of schools I was matched with to apply to, I only had one school on that list. And the craziest thing is that school was not Gus with all the work I'd put in.

I still fell short. Luckily I was able to attend a high school. And I got to meet a bunch of different admissions counselors from different schools. When my time was up to talk with the admissions counselors, I heard the loudest yell saying, yo, it's time to switch. And that was the first time I met Mr.

Long. You gave me a chance when no one else would without you. I would've never met some great friends and made bridge. Like Celia, who let me stay at her house at the beginning of the summer, the long hours on house party playing among us with Nia Trey, Ray. Hi, Jess, Jocelyn, Abby, Sarah Halena, Mack, and Aliyah, and even more, or when Liv took me off campus to try and poke at boom, which is surprising, pretty good for the many falls I had when Nick and Katie took me skiing for the first time.

And of course, Jacob leaving my ninth grade. All these great memories from a coincidental meeting. And for that, I am forever in debt. Thank you very ready for giving me a chance.

When I was given the position as a ninth grade dorm Proctor, I was so surprised. I was also truly worried. That's karma for me being an annoying ninth grader to my proctors, I would have an annoying people bullies, and I was definitely a right to be. These guys have got to be some of the most obnoxious and extremely messy messiest people I've ever met, but I still appreciate them, even though I may call them my sons to me, they are truly my little brother.

I might not always show it to them,

but you boys are so important to me that the little brother I was able to beat. My second chance since I wasn't there for my actual little budget, the person I lived at most when my little brother would come back, home crying or upset because the kids in middle school would scream the N-word down the halls.

I wasn't there. Instead. I was here at gov trying to bring up my grade and stories, chem class, or revising a paper from this. I got the great opportunity to come to gods, but actually the person who needed me the most, and to be honest, I'll never forgive myself for that. I will never forgive myself for not being there when my little brother needed the most and to watch him grow into a young adult.

So to my farm is I really love y'all.

Because you guys gave me the opportunity to be the older brother to help me guys three years. You're top of the problems.

I know I'm not always the best Proctor because I always, I'm busy trying to get some type of work done or get a second of free time for my. And I know that takes away time from us to hang out and bond. And if it weren't for stern, bailing me out and making sure everything is straight in the door, I don't know what I would have done.

And I'm sorry for that. I hope you all know how much you have made me grow as a person and how much I appreciate getting the chance to be your older brother.

So I guess what I'm trying to get at. Is that we all live our own lives and no one knows what we each go through because so many parts of our lives kept a secret because every day I throw on the best fixed smile I can, while inside the facing off my business, my biggest obstacles every day, it's harder than the last.

And no one lives a perfect life, no matter how much they try to cover it, we're all battling our own. Each battle harder than the last

act. I find myself stuck in the position of being the optimist. So when even everything feels horrible or overwhelming, I'm so quick to hide my problems when others knew me, because someone has to tell everyone that's going to be okay. And I just happened to be that person. But in secret, I stay up until.

Stressing over homework, pondering the meaning of loss of life and trapped in my own head full of sadness. As I sit there, I bought up my anger there and the feeling of being lost to me, dealing with others problems had become a coping mechanism, but it still doesn't get rid of the sad and lonely nights.

It doesn't fill the void in my heart. And once again, I feel like I'm back in elementary school, being the outcast and having the one on my side

for so much of my life, I felt alone and on my own so much so that it's become one of the few normal things in my life while I eat all, I hate being alone. It's one of the very few pieces of normalcy that I have. I go, I got everything I had dreamed and hoped of, but in the process I lost a lot. The holds value to me.

I got the great honor of being your academy president. And I feel as though I can walk into a building and get put the highs from people I'd left the market guts, and I'm truly grateful for all of that, but at what cost. I lost so many things that truly made me happy. My time to be with friends. My time with family, my time to sleep.

When I had to do online learning at the beginning of junior year, I watched my friends hung out together and shared laughs that goes, now we're a two minute walk away from each other, but I never had time to see them. And I feel. I was back sitting in my room in Jersey on a Friday night, watching everyone else hang out and share lives through my phone.

Was it all worth it? I hide my true feelings, my true sadness, my true loneliness, my true struggles, because I'm afraid of being seen as incapable. I'm afraid of me. I'm afraid of the pity you might show. I'm ashamed to be seen that it's worth grade shut, be out cast again. And so the reason why I'm saying all this, because I realize I'm not alone at all, a lot of us are together and I struggle being alone.

Ironic. I learned that many of you also feel the same pressure and stress. And I found comfort in that. I found a comforting because I knew that I'm not the only. But it also made me feel even more anxious out to say anything because I never saw anyone else just break down. Everyone else puts on a strong front.

So why couldn't I? So I thought the best thing I could do was also put on a strong font and heighten my problems or no one could find them in fear of being seen as weak or. Where's that knowing loop as that annoying that little fourth grader with a big gap, I try to act like everything was normal, but sick secretly I've been crumbling on the inside.

So if there's one thing I want everyone to take away from this, it's a check in on yourself and your friends and not just say, Hey, how are you now? Like really checking out. If there's one thing that I learned is that it's so much easier to lie and say, I'm good where everything is fine. That's to say the truth, because saying the truth, even when things are hard, that's real courage.

Thank you.

Good morning, gobs. My name is Eliana Milowski, but many of you know me as Al my name is also Eliana yacht L in Hebrew and Fu I, she and Mandarin. I am an adopted Chinese American Jewish, young woman throughout history. My ancestors have been the conquered, not the conquerors, nearly every aspect of my identity contradicts the image that the founding fathers had in mind.

I come from an orphanage and fooling China. I pray in Hebrew. And so 1943, it was illegal for people with my dark hair and almond Asian eyes to immigrate dismayed. Every obstacle I made it to the United States. When my parents brought me to Hawaii at 10 months old, I gave up my Chinese citizenship for a future here.

I'm likely not. When you picture, when you think of the American dream, But these United States, I, my home today for my very first and last chapel, talk as a student at the governor's academy, I want to share my story with y'all. I want to show you who I am, what I've learned from this community and just how far I've really come.

This story begins second semester of my sophomore year. Two years, one month and six days ago, I wrote a poem for Mr. Robertson's sophomore English class. He asked us to submit a Sustenna, a traditionally Italian fixed verse poem with six stanzas of six lines each. Then we went over a bunch of examples and discuss the structure together earlier that.

I found myself struggling to start considering my Sustenna was due second block the next day, which was less than 12 hours away. At this point, I started to panic a bit. I was passed with the deadline looming, but I didn't know where to begin after agonizing over Robbie's sestina, poetry guide and discarding, too many terrible lines.

I finally stopped procrastinating. Despite all of my frustration and exhaustion, I finished around 2:00 AM that morning. I'll read my midnight writing for you. Now

adopted sestina. I am discarded an orphan born abandoned on foreign doorsteps because blood was not enough to make my parents stay yet. I have grown more than they could ever need. Offer more than the weight of my 10 month cradle found, found one dreadfully dreary morning at the home 18 calendars ago. I was homeless without the woman who had carried and burst my tiny baby body.

I was neither coddled nor cradled by them. The father of my own blood could not show me the love. Every child should have. My basket was tottered Haggard still. I do not remember the Eastern sunrise each I flooded searching saucers, seeking a home. Even the nanny is, did not know what to do with an infant that burst more problems by the hour.

My blood boiled from sickness and the orphanage cradles barely fit my. Each time, the nurses cradled my feverish form more whales caught out. I never looked for the family of my blood that did not want or know how to open their home for the inconsolable baby born between their walls. Now I do not need shared flesh.

No, the worms and comfort another's cradle. My true parents didn't witness my birth because they didn't need to see it to see all I can become to understand the home I sought. But you say blood makes family as if genes and biological bloodlines can determine who cares, who will know how to turn a house into a home.

With food and compassion and a cradle cozy enough for the crying sickly child. Well, I have since learned, they did not need to witness my birth. When I look back at my time in the home, my heart bleeds for those not born into the safety, I am fortunate enough to know. Because far too few cradles were watched with such loving eyes

for better or for worse. My best writing is always done at midnight. The night before my deadline, I've always wondered. What would it be like to finish an assignment a couple of days before it's due and go to bed at a normal hours? Unfortunately, I've never been that kind of person, the curse of a true procrastinator, as you could probably guess reading is deeply personal for me.

I don't actually write for pleasure or because it's fun. I type words into my notes app and scribble lines on paper because there is something to be said, Something I need to share with the world when the burden is too heavy to bear by myself poetry. My preferred form is extremely emotional for me, free from the laws of grammar.

I can take the time to express myself in the most honest, raw way that I know how people often say, write what you know. But I wrote what I feel as I put pen to paper, working through the thoughts that swirl in my head. I allow myself to let in the emotion each time I stand before you, I choose my words with intention because they matter.

I speak my truth, my struggle in hopes that I might empower another who feels silent. I know what it feels like to be cut down and a single word, a slur or hurtful statement. And I know what it is like to be seen represented in another story. My voice often shakes during these personal speeches. Yes. With a sound of nervousness, but also with pride, because I'm so grateful to be here with you.

I am grateful to be heard and supported as I continue to grow. I'm thankful for this opportunity to speak, but I'm even more glad to be part of a community that is willing to listen my 18 years and past for it. Gloves have been like words on this page. Those experiences are part of me written into my past and engraved in.

But this story is just a draft because I still have plenty of work ahead. Thank you. .